Watch Videos
Show: HARDBALLDate: February 1, 2018Guest: John Feehery, Caitlin Huey-Burns, Eric Swalwell, Charlie Savage, Natasha Bertrand, Frank Figliuzzi, Dana Milbank

###START
Name: CHRIS MATTHEWS ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Above the law. Let`s play “Hardball.”
Good evening. I`m Chris Matthews in Washington.
In a year of all-out war between the President of the United States and the American justice system, this latest battle might reach a new height all together. President Trump appears now to be ready for war with his own FBI director. It`s over whether or not to release a partisan report dressed up as an intelligence document. It`s authored by the staff of Trump`s chief congressional defender, Devin Nunes, the battle lines are as clear as they are astounding.
On one side, the people who obviously want the memo releases. You have you congressman Nunes, President Trump and a majority of congressional Republicans, even leaders like speaker Paul Ryan.
On the other side, nearly the country`s entire national security establishment. The FBI yesterday put out an unprecedented public statement saying we have grave concerns about material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact the memo`s accuracy.
The FBI director Christopher Wray appointed by Trump himself privately warning the White House against releasing this memo. The department of justice told Nunes last week the memo`s release was extraordinarily reckless.
Deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein went to the White House and appealed to President Trump`s chief of staff John Kelly not to make the memo public. He was rebuffed.
Former CIA director John Brennan, a career intelligence officer tweeted, I had many fights with congressional Democrats over the years on national security matters, but I never witnessed a type of reckless partisan behavior I am now seeing from Nunes and House Republicans. Absence of moral and ethical leadership in the White House is fueling this government crisis.
And the CIA director under President Bush Michael Hayden said this today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MICHAEL HAYDEN ( FORMER CIA DIRECTOR) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It is the part of intelligence that most needs to keep politics out of the process. And here we have now an injection of hyper partisanship into that process. And I just fear great damage that will be done to institutions including oversight committees in the Congress, including the presidency and, of course, obviously, the FBI.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, White House official said today they will tell Congress probably tomorrow that the President is OK releasing the memo likely with no redactions.
I`m joined right now by U.S. congressman Eric Swalwell of California, former assistant director for counterintelligence at the FBI, Frank Figliuzzi. He is also an MSNBC national security adviser and Natasha Bertrand, staff writer for “the Atlantic” and “New York Times” Charlie Savage, also an MSNBC contributor.
Let me get start with the congressman here. Congressman, this is extraordinary. And I wonder, does the President understand what he is doing here basically trying to crash into the very people protecting this country`s security?
Name: ERIC SWALWELL  INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE ; Gender: N.A ; Race: N.A ; Dialogue:  Well, Chris, the President is likely under investigation. So you know, he shouldn`t have anything to do or be anywhere near reviewing a memo. That`s a monumental conflict of interest that he or the White House counsel who also maybe a witness is able to look at this.
But who are the adults? It`s the members of the intelligence committee who trusted with our nation`s secret and who are expected to not allow politics to invade into the independence of the department of justice. And that responsibility has been advocated by chairman Nunes and every member of the committee who has voted to allow this inaccurate memo to be released.
They are risking the republic to protect the President. And Chris, for what, for tax cuts? To deregulate their friends in industry? I just can`t imagine what reason they would do this and put all of us at risk.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Is the chairman of your committee working for the United States Congress and fulfilling his oath or is he working for the White House?
Name: SWALWELL ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  He never left the transition team. Just by his actions. He continues to work hand in hand to try and protect the President. And that`s such a damn shame, Chris, because we have always been a bipartisan committee. We travel to the hardest and roughest spots in the world to meet with our military. We have always just, you know, worked to, you know, keep our nation safe and he has – I`m afraid destroyed that. And he – it`s almost irreparable now as long as he is there.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Does he know that he took an oath to the constitution and not to one man?
Name: SWALWELL ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I don`t know. I can just tell you again his actions. His actions are destructive. And Chris, just to, you know, further show his actions, he sent over to the White House a different memo than what was voted out of the committee. They altered the memo materially omitting further information causing greater confusion and that`s what the White House will be releasing. So we think they are releasing an unauthorized memo.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Frank, your thoughts about this. Because I think it`s a broader question then. But I`m going to get to the goofiness of the entire Republican party led by President Trump to hang their hat on the goofy performance of Carter Page and the goofiness of defending him against any kind of surveillance as if all his years of Russian connections and selling of his Russian connections to the Trump campaign and his involvement as sort of an intermediary back and forth, (INAUDIBLE), who is working for. If that`s not worthy of investigation, I don`t know what is in terms of this.
We know the Russians screwed with our election. We know that the Trump people were involved with them doing it and we want to get to one of the people who is doing it. And for some reason, chairman Nunes says that man must be protected from surveillance. We must not note what Carter Page was doing with the Russians over in Moscow. I find it an incredible thing for the party that the long fought communism Russia around the world has somehow decided that they are going to go down on the issue of defending Carter Page and the role that the Trump people played with the Russians. Your thoughts, Frank?
Name: FRANK FIGLIUZZI ( FORMER FBI ASSISTANT DIRECTOR) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think in the long term, they are going to come to regret this as an party. It`s going to irreparably harm in the near term and long-term the Republican Party. So there`s many things wronging with this picture. Let`s just one or two.
First, the testimony of the committee that was released by congressman Schiff where they asked Nunes, did you conspire, did you talk with anybody in the White House about this memo about drafting it? And the lack of response on that, I`m not answering any further questions. I don`t know if anyone talked to the White House on this.
This smacks of actual further obstruction because remember, the obstruction statute speaks to the need for intent. And if you`re talking to the White House about crafting this memo, when to release it, what the contents are, you are essentially conspiring to obstruct.
What`s one more wrong thing with this which is if you don`t trust your FBI director to deal with alleged misconduct involving an affidavit submitted to court, get rid of him. If you don`t trust the inspector general to deal with allegations of misconduct, get rid of him. They are not choosing to do that. They are choosing to do a dramatic release tomorrow in the form of essentially a press release.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, Frank, there (INAUDIBLE) and I all know this. And we – everybody watching this show knows. They are quite willing to get rid of people they don`t like who are investigating them. They got rid of Comey. They got rid of McCabe. And you say that now they are sort of targeting Rosenstein. They are going after him. I mean, they are going to going after Wray. What about Chris Wray? They put the guy just a few months ago as FBI director. Are they going to bounce him? It looks like they might it be willing to threaten the guy.
Name: FIGLIUZZI ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, this is essentially what they are doing. They are putting him between a rock and hard place. It is kind of like dishonestly asking somebody when had he stopped beating their wife. The mere fact that you have to respond to that question, that you have to repeat the terrible allegation is damning itself. So if Wray comes out and tries to rebut the memo line by line, bullet by bullet, he is actually forced to repeat in the public domain what he doesn`t want even exposed. So they have trapped him on this.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Anyway, President Trump`s motives in pushing for the release of the memo seems clear to impeach the people he sees as an existential threat to his presidency. I think he is right about that. They are a threat. Rod Rosenstein and Robert Mueller are really trying to get to the truth.
“The Washington Post” reports according to a person familiar with his comments, the President has told advisers the memo might make people realize how the FBI and Mueller are biased against him. And that could give him reason to force Rosenstein out.
And CNN reports in phone calls last night and over the past few days, Trump has told friends he believes the memo would expose bias within the agency`s top ranks and make it easier for him to argue the Russian investigations are prejudiced against him according to two sources.
Today, congressman Adam Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the House intel committee voiced a similar concern. Let`s watch the congressman.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: ADAM SCHIFF  ( RANKING MEMBER, INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The President is looking for a reason to fire Bob Mueller. The President is looking for a reason to fire Rod Rosenstein. The bigger concern I have right now is for Rod Rosenstein. This has been true for me for some time. And why Rosenstein and not Bob Mueller? The White House knows it would face a firestorm if it fired Bob Mueller. What`s more effective is to fire Bob Mueller`s boss. Now, why is that more effective? Rod Rosenstein decides the scope of Bob Mueller`s investigation.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Let me go to Natasha Bertrand. Thank you for coming on.
With our expertise, here is the question. It looks to me they are setting this up. They are saying if you go after the truth, you prosecutors all the way down from the FBI whoever is head of the FBI or who is the head of the special counsel`s office, in this case, Mueller. If you go after the truth and find out what the Trump people were doing with the Russians like Carter Page, what were they doing over there with those Moscow figures all those months? What were they up to when the Russians were trying to control our elections? What were they doing in response? What were they doing perhaps in collaboration and collusion?
If you do that, we are going to attack you for doing that. And if you stop us from attacking, we are going to get rid of you. It is like they are saying to the prosecutes if you prosecute, if you investigate, we are going to call you out and say, you are the enemy of the people. It`s unbelievable how far they are going with this thing.
Name: NATASHA BERTRAND ( STAFF WRITER, THE ATLANTIC) ; Gender: female ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right. Basically it puts the FBI and DOJ in a pretty impossible position. There are a lot of ex-FBI agencies who are saying if the memo does come out tomorrow, over the objections of Chris Wray, over the objections of the DOJ, then Wray might have to be forced to resign just because his position and his clout will have been so marginalized and undermined.
Now this whole thing started of course, at the White House. This entire debacle started when Devin Nunes got out of his car in late March of 2017 after receiving a phone call from the White House telling him that they had documents that he just had to see about alleged Obama administration surveillance on Trump associates. He then went out and gave a press conference. He briefed the President on this intelligence that he had seen. And that is kind of when the entire narrative of potential abuse by the FBI and the DOJ kind of came into the forefront. And, of course, it had been already out there because Trump had said, well, I wonder if Obama had my wires tapped at Trump tower. So you can really trace the origins of this clearly.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Who obviously wrote the memo?
Name: BERTRAND ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Which memo?
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  This memo?
Name: BERTRAND ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Devin Nunes. His staffers.
Which staffer?
Name: BERTRAND ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Cash Patel.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And what`s Cash Patel`s background?
Name: BERTRAND ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Cash Patel, he worked at the DOJ. He has been a long-time Nunes kind of loyalist. He was actually one of the staffers that was dispatched to London last year to look for Christopher Steele. Kind of showed up at his lawyer`s door along with another staffer, Nunes staffer and demanded to talk to him.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right.
Name: BERTRAND ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And that –.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What`s his contacts with the White House west wing and the people working over at the Eisenhower executive office building? What are his contacts over there? Why would he be over at a place like that?
Name: BERTRAND ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You know, it`s unclear. But a figure of interest in all of this is a guy named Isenberg who is alleged to have given Devin Nunes the documents to begin with last March. And, of course –.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  He was the guy that started the midnight ride over there where Nunes gets over there and this complete mascaraed gets over the old executive office building next to the White House, picks up material, goes back to the White House west wing the next day and says guess what I have and clearly was carrying stuff just for the White House, just for Trump that made it look like he was some sort of actually a U.S. Congress person pretending to be one.
Name: BERTRAND ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The whole thing was extremely contrived from the beginning. Because it was as if the White House was laundering kind classified information through Devin Nunes so that he could then make it public and create a case to go after the FBI.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK. We might have more on this staffer for Nunes tomorrow, Cash Patel. We may have more on that tomorrow.
Name: SWALWELL ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But Chris, the claims were bogus then. The claims were bogus then. That`s important to note. He never produced that evidence and he hasn`t produced evidence now.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What do you think of that operation, Nunes staff operation? Who are those people? Are they really White House people, basically dupes? Do they work for the White House? Do they say they work for Nunes? Who do they work for, congressman? You are supposed to be a separate branch of government.
Name: SWALWELL ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They are supposed to work for the people.
But Chris, where I come from, the name of the person on the door is the person responsible. Devin Nunes is the chairman of the committee. He is responsible for what`s going on right now. And Paul Ryan should remove him immediately.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Do you think that White House actually wrote this infamous memo?
Name: SWALWELL ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They worked with – they have been working with Devin Nunes on this memo, yes. That is clear.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So the President of the United States is being asked to approve over this weekend whether they put out a memo that he had a hand and his people had a hand in creating. It`s a joke.
Name: SWALWELL ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It gives him a window into the evidence into the Russia investigation. Again, he is a potential subject of that. That`s a compromised investigation.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We are going to talk about a constitutional crisis. It seems to me the constitution has always been turned on its butt. We have got a Congress, a chairman of a committee on intelligence which is historically been a bipartisan committee. And usually, even membered members. And they are basically there to work together and to try to find out if our intelligence committees are doing their job. And had been turn in to a tool of a President playing defense.
Name: CHARLES SAVAGE ( THE NEW YORK TIMES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think that is exactly the right way to think about this in terms of going on offense as the best defense. If you think about what this memo is, our understanding of it it`s sort of a three-part set.
First of all, it looks at the use of Steele dossier information or information from Steele in this application and portrays that as a scandal because the judge wasn`t fully told who obviously was funding it.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  This is the Trump case.
Name: SAVAGE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right or the Nunes case.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Same difference.
Name: SAVAGE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And so – but it`s not just that the that original application for Carter Page had this information in it. The important thing, the most important thing I think from what we are hearing it talks about extending that wiretap application applying for renewals every 90 days up to the point in which the Trump administration is in charge and Rod Rosenstein is the official signing off on that dossier that resubmits the same information to the court saying we want to stay up on this guy. Here is the same reason as before. That means that if it is a scandal to use Steele information in the application, Rod Rosenstein is guilty of the same.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So they are going at him.
Name: SAVAGE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  This is the ammunition to go after Rod Rosenstein.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And why would is the President want to get rid of Rosenstein, in his own inters?
Name: SAVAGE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  He is the man, the only man standing between Trump and Mueller. Under justice department regulations, Trump can`t fire Mueller. Only Rod Rosenstein can. He can fire Rod Rosenstein and put someone else in there who would be willing to do his bidding starting at light massacre style. He needs an excuse. And so this could give him the excuse to replace Rod Rosenstein who has refused to find that Mueller has committed misconduct and therefore, a rational for removing him and put someone else willing to say that.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I have a sense that the people who talks to the President at night when they come to him at night when he is worried, when people tend to get worried, they go to him, he has one thought of this line. What do I have to do right now to save my butt?
Anyway, thank you congressman Eric Swalwell, the intelligence committee. Thank you, sir. Great testimony for us tonight.
Thank you, Frank Figliuzzi and Natasha Bertrand and Charlie Savage.
Coming up, special counsel Robert Mueller wants to know more about how Trump and his team crafted a fake explanation for that Trump tower meeting with Don Junior, Kushner, the son-in-law, and Paul Manafort. The one they had with the Russians last June. They are zeroing on that and key figures in the Trump White House are feeling the heat. What went on in that room last June with the Russians?
Plus, role reversal. Can you imagine the outrage from Republicans had it been Hillary Clinton who were President right now and had done the kinds of things Donald Trump has been doing and Chelsea. I mean, just imagine, just flip it around and say suppose they had done anything like this. When you lay it out like that, and we wont today, it`s staggering to see how Republicans continue to put party over principle.
And back to the real world at the “Hardball” roundtable tonight, in the reckoning coming for the Republican Party as they for an whatever reasons defend Trump in what is sure to be a collision with Robert Mueller.
Finally, let me finish tonight with Trump watch. He won`t like it.
This is “Hardball” where the action is.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  President Trump today bragged about the record viewership for his state of the union address. The only problem is, surprise, he doesn`t have the facts at all straight.
Trump tweeted quote “thank you for all the nice compliments and reviews on the state of the union speech. 45.6 million people watched, the highest number in history.” That`s Trump talking.
Well, Presidents George W. Bush, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama all delivered state of the union speeches with much higher viewership. That said, President Trump has never let the facts get in the way of a good story. Here he goes.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: DONALD TRUMP ( PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We had a massive crowd of people. We had a crowd. I looked over that sea of people and I said to myself, wow.
Here`s a picture of the crowd. Now, audience was the biggest ever. But this crowd was massive. Look how far back it goes.
It looked like a million and a half people. Whatever it was it was. But it went all the way back to the Washington monument. People came out and voted like they have never seen before. I guess it was the biggest electoral college win since Reagan.
That speech was a home run. They loved it. They gave me a standing ovation for a long period of time. They never sat down most of them for the speech.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  How do you sit down next to him looking him in the face three feet away from like reporters have to do and actually buy that stuff without what, smirking?
We will be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Welcome back to HARDBALL.
“The New York Times” is reporting today that special counsel Robert Mueller is zeroing in on the misleading story that the president and his advisers drafted to explain a now infamous campaign meeting with Russians back in June of 2016.
As we know, Jared Kushner, Paul Manafort, and Donald Trump Jr. took that meeting at Trump Tower to get Russian dirt on Hillary Clinton. That`s why they met. It began with a business associate, when that associate e-mailed Donald Trump Jr. offering – quote – “sensitive information that could, that would incriminate Hillary, information he said was a product of Russia and its government support more Mr. Trump.”
Well, in response, Donald Trump Jr. said, “If it`s what you say, I love it.”
When news of the meeting came to light last summer – that`s 2017 – Donald Trump Jr. offered a statement that concealed the meeting`s real purpose, saying: “We primarily discussed a program for the adoption of Russian children.”
Well, it was soon revealed that the president supervised the drafting that misleading statement for his son, and his role in doing so has become a focus of the investigation into possible obstruction of justice by the president.
And now “The New York Times” reports that the special counsel is interested in speaking to the president`s former legal spokesman Mark Corallo, who resigned shortly after that statement was issued.
According to three people familiar with the special counsel`s request, Corallo plans to tell Mueller about a previously undisclosed conference call he had with the president and communications aide Hope Hicks.
They`re all involved in this – quote – “Corallo planned to tell investigators that Ms. Hicks said during the call that e-mails written by Donald Trump Jr. before the Trump Tower meeting” – I love this – “will never get out.” The e-mails will never get out, she said.
“And that left Mr. Corallo with concerns that Ms. Hicks could be contemplating obstructing justice, the people said.”
Well, late last night, a lawyer to Hicks herself denied the Corallo Corallo`s allegations, saying: “She never said that. And the idea that has Hope Hicks ever suggested that e-mails or other documents would be concealed or destroyed is completely false.”
Well, that`s what lawyers do.
Joining me right now is Ken Dilanian, investigative reporter with NBC News, and Malcolm Nance, MSNBC national security analyst.
Ken, it goes back to something that we all understood. The Clinton (sic) family, I always called them the Romanovs, they all seemed to move as a family, the son-in-law, Jared, and they brought in the son – I`m sorry – the son – Jared, the son-in-law and, of course, Don Jr.
And they all went in with Manafort, who, of course, has all those Russian ties, to some get dirt on Hillary Clinton, the opponent. And then they had to say, well, we really didn`t do that, because that seems really sleazy, maybe illegal.
Tell us about that. Why would they want to the cover that up and say – why would Hope Hicks say, if she did, we`re going to get rid of those e-mails?
Name: KEN DILANIAN ( NBC NEWS NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think because, as you said, Chris, it looks really incriminating, even if it in fact wasn`t incriminating, because all the evidence that we have seen in public and my reporting tells me that there really wasn`t any significant dirt offered by these Russians at this meeting.
But it looked horrible. And the e-mail setting it up talked about a Russian government effort to help your father`s campaign, which is exactly what the Mueller investigation is designed to root out.
So, presumably, when Donald Trump saw that, he knew he had a huge problem on his hands. Now we`re having this meeting. This story – the significant aspect of the story is exactly what you read. The passage that talks about Hope Hicks talking with the president of the United States about potentially hiding these e-mails.
Now, it turns out there`s no way you could hide the e-mails because the lawyers had already marked for turning over to Congress.
But don`t forget Robert Mueller was not aware of this meeting until it was reported by “The New York Times.” At least that is what the reporting suggests. And so it does seem that they were at least thinking about how to disguise this from investigators.
And even if this alone is not incriminating for Hope Hicks – and we should point out her lawyers deny she said this, but it raises a question of what other behavior is out there, what other e-mails did she send? Was she engaging in an effort to cover things up, and does she have criminal exposure, Chris?
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, let`s talk about criminal exposure by Hope Hicks and by the president.
They knew at the time there was a special counsel coming for them. They knew that the special counsel was looking exactly at this, their relations with the Russians.
Name: DILANIAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And in terms of getting any help, dirty stuff on Clinton, they had no dirty stuff, but promising that. They knew what – so if they were discovering – if they were talking about destroying evidence, like she was quoted there saying, I`m going to erase e-mails, they are never going to see the light of day, isn`t that, prima facie, on its surface, obstructing evidence, if you know you`re being investigated and you`re destroying evidence?
Name: DILANIAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, if you were – but the allegation is not that she said destroy them. It`s that she was raising the question about whether these would ever come out, whether they would be discovered because they were too – such a small group of people.
Now, that could either be naive or it could be malicious. And I think it depends on what other evidence there is out there about her conduct, Chris.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Since when does e-mail disappear?
(LAUGHTER)
Name: DILANIAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Not in this day and age.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It doesn`t disappear. It lasts forever.
Let me just bring in Malcolm for a thought here about this, because I see the pattern here. What do you see? I know what is going on here. I think everybody watching knows this. They were playing hanky-panky with the Russians, and then they tried to cover it up. It ain`t complicated, this game.
Your thoughts, Malcolm?
Name: MALCOLM NANCE ( NBC TERRORISM ANALYST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, it`s not.
And this didn`t happen in a vacuum. There is now this whole constellation of contacts. And let`s take a quick walk through memory lane and look at some of the more significant.
In November of 2015, Trump`s personal lawyer, Cohen, sending e-mails saying that Russia would be working in their interests, and soon after, Vladimir Putin gives Trump a thumbs up, saying he`s a colorful personality.
Move on to that. We now find that Papadopoulos was making contact with people who were connected to Moscow and saying that they had 20,000 e-mails.
Soon after that, Carter Page is going over to Russia and talking, supposedly – well he certainly has a FISA warrant on him, and supposedly in communications with Russian personnel.
And in the middle of that is the Donald Trump Jr. e-mail conference where they say that they`re going to get dirt on Hillary Clinton. There was a dirty tricks campaign afoot. And when that information came out last year, the first thing the White House team decided to do was sit down and figure out a cover story.
That almost immediately became inoperative.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Let me go back to Ken.
When I think about Donald Trump on the plane, president of the United States, in that fabulous new Air Force One we have had the last couple presidents, and he`s sitting on that plane fixing the screw-ups of his kids, oh, God, what did they do? Who were they meeting with? What did they say? What`s this? Oh, we have got to come up with a story.
And Hope Hicks is a smart P.R. person. Probably somebody says, well, let`s talk about they were just trying to get adoptions easier. We all know about the problems of getting adopting kids from Russia. There`s always tricky stuff there and medical records that are played with and everything. OK. Let`s say that was what it was.
Is that obstruction, to make up a complete story and sell it in the media, to cover up for a very, very tricky meeting you had with the Russians?
Name: DILANIAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, as you know, Chris, it`s not a lie to – for politicians to lie to the American public. If it was, everybody in Washington would be in jail.
But there are legal theories under which…
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Except Jimmy Carter.
(LAUGHTER)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But go ahead.
Name: DILANIAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  There are legal theories under which repeated lies by public officials to the public that are designed to obfuscate, that are designed to mislead investigators, congressional investigators, federal investigators, there`s legal theories on which that could become part of a pattern of obstruction, particularly if there`s a conspiracy.
And this could be construed as an overt act of the conspiracy, Chris.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, “The New York Times” describes how the president – that would be Trump – and his aides scrambled to formulate a response to the reports of that Trump Tower meeting while they were aboard Air Force One.
I talked about that quote: “A fierce debate erupted over how much information if the news release should include. Mr. Trump was insistent about including language that the meeting was about Russian adoptions, according to two people with knowledge of the discussion. Trump`s attorneys were not consulted about this statement before it was released.”
In his book “Fire and Fury,” author Michael Wolff said that the Trumps` legal spokesman resigned over the episode soon thereafter – quote – “Corallo, seeing no good outcome and privately confiding that he believed the meeting on Air Force One represented a likely obstruction of justice, quit.”
Malcolm, when people start to walk away, I think the special prosecutor, the special counsel starts to bring in people to talk. He walked away. Why did he walk away? Let`s listen to him.
Corallo must be talking. Malcolm?
Name: NANCE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes. Well, Corallo must be talking.
Look, he saw a crime in progress. And he didn`t want to have any part of it, even though he himself wasn`t a lawyer. But, more important, more importantly is that Donald Trump himself insisted that they use the cover story of the adoptions.
And he knew about that at least one year ago that that was the reason that Veselnitskaya and the others had met with Donald Trump Jr. in the “I love it” meeting. And that itself, he had to – he could not possibly have believed that would hold water. But he insisted that they do it.
And it immediately fell apart.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You know what I`m watching here, Ken and Malcolm? I`m watching a guy who came to Washington with street smarts, like Trump does. And he thought he didn`t need Washington expertise.
But I`ll tell you, the kind of mistakes he made here – Ken, I know you`re looking – you both understand this – you bring in the really smart Washington lawyers. They know how to stick within the law.
Name: DILANIAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They know how to protect you from making stupid mistakes, Clark Clifford, people like that. They know what they were doing.
And they would help you avoid getting into trouble. Instead, he was so arrogant, he said, I don`t need people like that. I will listen to Hope Hicks. She will help me out here. I will listen to these people. I will get out there on a ledge defending Carter Page.
Give me a break. A smart lawyer in this town would have warned you from day one, don`t kill yourself over this crap.
Anyway, thank you, Ken Dilanian. Thank you, Malcolm Nance.
This thing is getting hotter every day.
Every next, time for a role reversal. This is a little bit speculative, but what if Hillary Clinton were president right now and trying to get away with the sort of things this crowd has done? This is pure imagination, because it`s never going to happen, but think about how the other side, FOX, would be going after her.
I will give you one guess how Republicans would be reacting.
This is HARDBALL, where the action is.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Welcome back to HARDBALL.
President Trump`s first year in office has been clouded, of course, by the Russia investigation, and still will be. Just a month into his second year, the president and his Republican cohorts have closed ranks now, working together to undermine the investigation itself being headed by special counsel Mueller.
Well, here`s what we do know.
In July, we found out that Donald Trump Jr. was offered incriminating information on Hillary Clinton. We just talked about that. In October, we learned that foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos got a tip that the Russian government had dirt on Hillary Clinton in the form of thousands of e-mails.
We also learned that President Trump`s national security adviser, Michael Flynn, lied about his calls with the Russian ambassador. Jared Kushner, the president`s son-in-law, tried to set up secret communications with the same Russian ambassador.
And the president`s attorney general, Jeff Sessions, failed to tell Congress about his own meetings with the same Russian ambassador.
Given all we have learned, “New York Times” columnist Bret Stephens today posed an important question: What if Hillary Clinton had done all this stuff?
“If there were her presidency,” he says, “I would be writing columns calling for further investigations of a manifestly corrupt Clinton administration and even raising the question of impeachment. I know because I was there for the prequel back in `98,” of course going after Bill.
For more, I`m joined by Dana Milbank, columnist for “The Washington Post,” a man with a gift for satire.
But I often like to do this, turn the tables. But Hillary, this stuff is dealing with the reds, with the Russians, I mean, all these meetings with this Kislyak, all these meetings over there in Moscow, all the dinners, all the money going back and forth, bringing in Manafort, bringing in all these Russian people, types.
Name: DANA MILBANK ( OP-ED COLUMNIST, “THE WASHINGTON POST”) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I think we have a pretty good idea of how the Republicans would be reacting if a President Clinton, Hillary Clinton…
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Hannity would be levitating right now.
Name: MILBANK ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  But think about it.
After Benghazi, seven investigations came up with nothing. The e-mail scandal, nobody charged.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What was it, 11 hours of hearings with nothing?
Name: MILBANK ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
But even then, they were saying – the lenient people were saying, lock her up. Others, like Roger Stone and Al Baldasaro were saying execution by firing squad.
So, now we have an investigation where already, in just a year or so, we have two guilty pleas and two further indictments. So, at the very least, they would have impeached her. I think the only question is, would she now be in Gitmo, or would they in fact be arranging the firing line?
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But don`t they see this?
The answer is no. Do they?
Name: MILBANK ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  No. That hobgoblin of consistency rarely surfaces in politics.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But the willingness to defend – I`m going to end the show with this – going after a guy who is as goofy seeming as Carter Page. He just seems goofy.
And the fact that he has all these Russian connections and he turned them all over to Trump`s people so they can all use the Russian connection with a government we know was screwing with our elections, it`s coming together in one big goulash here, right?
And then they say, but we`re going to go down to the line on this guy. The president of the United States is going out this weekend and saying, I`m on the side of Carter Page. He should not have been surveilled. The FBI should not have been looking at him.
What? It`s goofy.
Name: MILBANK ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Look, it`s an extraordinary thing.
And everybody in politics switches sides depending on who is the president. This takes it to another degree. Like, you can, previously, the Republicans were devising conspiracy theories to see why Clinton did something wrong.
Now they are devising conspiracy theories to see why Trump didn`t do something wrong.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK. Suppose – suppose Barack Obama had gotten involved with an adult performer, without getting into detail, somebody named Stormy. Just think about it. Would they have given him, what do you call it, a mulligan?
(LAUGHTER)
Name: MILBANK ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  No other politician has experienced anything like the things that Trump has gone through and survived it.
That would be Clinton. That would be Obama. That would be everybody else in either party.
But there`s just that other extraordinary element here. And they were going after Clinton for mishandling classified information.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I know.
Name: MILBANK ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  What are they doing now? They are mishandling classified information to protect Trump.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And they`re handing it out to the people. They`re giving it out.
Thank you, Dana. You have a great sense. Your column today is fabulous.
Name: MILBANK ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Up next: Will there be a Republican reckoning? The party of law and order, remember that, is abandoning that principle all to protect the president as he heads to a collision course with Mueller.
You`re watching HARDBALL.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: CHRIS MATTHEWS ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Welcome back to HARDBALL.
Well, President Trump is on a collision course with special counsel Robert Mueller. And Republicans are desperate to give him cover. Despite warnings from the national security community, House Republicans including Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy and House Speaker Paul Ryan are bulldozing ahead, calling for the release of that controversial memo authored by House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes and probably with help from the White House.
Earlier this week, Speaker Ryan called the memo completely separate from the Mueller investigation. Right.
Today, he doubled down saying the memo shows that Congress is doing its job. He also rejected the notion that the memo has anything to do with the Mueller investigation.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: PAUL RYAN  ( SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What this is not is an indictment on our institutions of our justice system. This memo is not an indictment of the FBI of the Department of Justice. It does not impugn the Mueller investigation or the deputy attorney general. People should not be drawing lines. People should not be implicating independence issues. This does not implicate the Mueller investigation. This does not implicate the DAG. This is about us holding the system accountable.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, let`s bring in the HARDBALL roundtable to decide that question, whether true or not.
Cornell Belcher is a Democratic strategist, John Feehery is a Republican strategist and Caitlin Huey-Burns is political reporter for “Real Clear Politics”.
Let me start with Caitlin.
Caitlin, the speaker of the House says this has nothing to do with trying to get rid of Rosenstein, what I call the slow motion Saturday Night Massacre because he got rid of Comey, he got rid of McCabe the other day, he`s gunning for Rosenstein. He says it`s not.
What do you say?
Name: CAITLIN HUEY-BURNS ( POLITICAL REPORTER, REAL CLEAR POLITICS) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I think that it asks the question of why is the White House so eager to get this out. You heard the president on the record.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Because it damns somebody at the FBI.
Name: HUEY-BURNS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Exactly. And there aren`t any other conclusions to be drawn but that. So, my question is, you know, the White House has repeatedly tried to undermine this investigation. My question is, what this memo if published would allow the White House or compel the president to do? Actually take action beyond rhetoric, right? I mean, I think that`s what a lot of people are wondering.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes. I get the feeling Johnny had a hand in writing this. I don`t think there`s any separation between the Nunes and the White House. The staffs are basically working together, the drafting. Now the president like he was that time that Nunes did that midnight right of Paul Revere, he went to the EOB one night, come back the next morning and said guess what I got for you, Mr. President.
He`s working with the White House. And you know – I`m sorry. I think you know.
Name: JOHN FEEHERY ( REPUBLICAN STRATEGIST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Let me make a couple points.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Sure.
Name: FEEHERY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I haven`t read the memo. I don`t think anyone here has read the memo. So, let`s figure out what this memo –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But we know who wrote it.
Name: FEEHERY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I know it came from the intelligence committee.
Second I`ll make. I like Devin Nunes. He`s a great guy. He`s getting unfairly maligned.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK.
Name: FEEHERY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  His committee is all behind him, all the members of the Republican side.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  All the members?
Name: FEEHERY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The Republican side of the committee, guys can like Peter King, all the moderates. All the – Trey Gowdy is behind him. Guys like Jeff Denham are behind him. So, it`s not just Devin Nunes.
The third point I would make is if Hillary Clinton were elected, she would have the same questions, she would raise the exact same questions about the FBI. The FBI got involved in the politics of this and should not have gotten involved in the politics.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Who are the FBI side – which side were they on?
Name: FEEHERY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I don`t know which side they were in.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Eleven days before the election, they dropped this bomb on Hillary Clinton and you`re saying they were on Hillary`s side.
Name: FEEHERY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I will say – no, I`m not saying they`re in Hillary side. What I`m saying is, if Hillary were elected she would do the same thing to the FBI saying, what the heck were you guys doing involve – you almost cost me the election. She didn`t because she didn`t win. The fact is, the FBI got involved in the election on both sides and made a mess of it.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But Trump`s contention is the FBI`s against him, there`s some bunch of lefties.
Name: FEEHERY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right, that is a problem for both sides.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Do you believe they`re a bunch of lefties at the FBI?
Name: FEEHERY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I don`t think there are a bunch of –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  By the way, in your whole life, did you ever think of the FBI as a career for somebody on left side politically?
Name: FEEHERY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I don`t believe that at all.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK.
Name: FEEHERY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What I will say is the FBI got involved in the politics on both sides and they made a mess of it. That needs some oversight from Congress.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think the president of the United States it always happens in politics, you end up taking the weirdest positions to make your point. He`s defending Carter Page, one of the strangest people who come across in a long – he`s Kato Kaelin. He`s one of these weird guys that somehow gets into the story like the O.J. case and he`s there with that weird look on television. He`s involved with the Russians and becomes the man with the Russians for the Trump people.
And somehow, somehow Trump says he should never be investigated for being the liaison with me and the Russians, even though that`s exactly who he was.
Name: CORNELL BELCHER ( DEMOCRATIC STRATEGIST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, this is – it`s unconscionable, right? That – and, Chris, you`ve been around Washington long enough. You know there were some committees –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Look at this. Just watch, judge for yourself.
Name: BELCHER ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  There`s some committees beyond partisanship to a certain extent you leave it at the door, the Ethics Committee and Intelligence Committee.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s the man they`re basing everything on in the future of the Republican Party.
Name: FEEHERY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Nice hat though.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Take the hat. Not what`s in it.
Name: CORNELL ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What`s the real danger is that you are undermining institutions and organizations that are important for democracy. Look, you know, don`t take it from me. Leon Panetta was on today talking about how this endangers us with our allies, people and sources that we actually have to work with on the frontlines of terrorism. This is not only under – this is a dangerous to our democracy. It undermines our safety. And Kasich – Govern Kasich was right. Speaker Ryan should tell Nunes to cut it out because he`s undermining one of the few committees once upon a time you left partisanship at the door.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I`ve got to bring this up, Caitlan. The guy they`ve been killing is this guy named Peter Strzok, some sort of romance with somebody else, fair enough. He shouldn`t have been. The e-mail stuff just blows me away. I don`t know what they`re up to.
But he is the guy that wrote the document that basically came out 11 days before the election and the Hillary people, Lanny Davis coming on here a few days, saying that`s the reason Hillary lost and it`s a good argument, because on October 27, she was leading in the polls. All of a sudden, it comes out and they open up this thing with Huma Abedin and Anthony Weiner and all this crap comes out and nothing really came out but it ruined her. Now they`re saying that guy was a sneak – no, he was a little mole for Hillary.
Give me a break. He`s the guy that drafted the thing that blew her apart how can they say this stuff.
Name: HUEY-BURNS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Certainly undermines all of that. You know, it`s important to have Congress have oversight of these agencies, right? I don`t think any of us want to say the FBI should run without any oversight or any of these agencies. But the kind of the cherry picking of information apartment rush to get information out there to prove a point, on either side, is really troubling. I think that`s the bigger picture that people need to look at.
And you also have an I.G. report, an I.G., the I.G. at the FBI looking into this, as well.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Who let a grown-up on roundtable? What`s going on here?
The roundtable is sticking with us.
You`re watching HARDBALL.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  When we come back, the roundtable will tell me something I don`t know here in Washington. Stick around for three big headlines. We`ll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And now the HARDBALL round table.
Cornell, tell me something I don`t know.
Name: BELCHER ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We just came out of field with a poll in battleground states. Millennials who are a key cohort, only 27 percent now approve of the job President Trump is doing. A majority of them strongly disapprove of the job he`s doing. Millennials are the key group pushing against Donald Trump right now.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
John Feehery?
Name: FEEHERY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Republicans have a problem in New York state. If they don`t get anybody at the top of the ticket for this governor, for the Senate or this lieutenant governor, they`re not going to have anybody bringing any Republicans to the polls and they can really have an impact on house races. They`ve got to get someone at the top of the ticket.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Caitlin?
Name: HUEY-BURNS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Mitt Romney is teasing his Senate announcement today. He would possibly be running as an anti-Trump Republican in Utah. Republicans say that Republicans are running as close to Trump as they can.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Can he get through the convention? Can he get through the convention?
Name: HUEY-BURNS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, it looks like he`s going to be the nominee. The others are not.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you, Cornell Belcher. Thank you, John Feehery and Caitlan Huey-Burns.
When we return, let me finish tonight with Trump watch. You`re watching HARDBALL.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Trump Watch Thursday, February 1st, 2018.
Wouldn`t you want to know if a foreign government worked to help change the course of a U.S. election? And that some Americans gladly worked with them to their own electoral advantage?
Well, this is precisely the question now on the national debating table. Should the FBI have tried to find out if a campaign helper for Donald Trump was working with or possibly for the Russians during the 2016 election? Trump`s guy in Congress says, no, the FBI had no right to surveil the Trump campaign helper. The FBI had no right to bug Carter Page to see what he might have been up to with the Russians, even though the bureau had been watching his Russian connections well before he offered those connections to Trump.
Here`s another way to put it. Suppose we all learned that the Russians were working to influence our presidential election, suppose the FBI learned that there was someone with Russian connections who then turned those connections over to Donald Trump`s presidential campaign. What if the FBI had not investigating that Trump guy who was connecting his campaign with the Russians? Wouldn`t that be a concern for us?
Look, the dangerous game that Trump Republicans are playing here is to take this side of the Russians against U.S. law enforcement officials trying to protect this country`s security, especially in this case the security of our democratic process itself. Of all the goofy aspects of the Trump operation now under investigation, from the many meetings of Trump`s children and-in-laws with Russians, to the strange lack of memory of his attorney general of meetings he had with Russians, their decision now as the reckoning and all this comes near is whether to place their cards on the head of one Carter Page whose goofiness is itself obvious to the most loyal of the Trump loyalists.
That`s HARDBALL for now. Thanks for being with us.
“ALL IN WITH CHRIS HAYES” starts right now.
###END
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.END
Copy: Content and programming copyright 2018 MSNBC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2018 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.

