Watch Videos
Show: HARDBALLDate: February 8, 2018Guest: Sahil Kapur, Donna Edwards, Philip Rucker, Susan Page, Neal Katyal

###START
Name: ARI MELBER ( MSNBC HOST, THE BEAT) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We are now five hours away from another 
potential government shutdown based on the standoff. I can report this hour the White House telling agencies to get ready for that. Senator Rand Paul is the one now blocking a vote on a new spending bill to avoid a shutdown. Members of both parties though have been driving shutdown politics lately.
“Hardball” starts now.
Name: CHRIS MATTHEWS ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Lots of trouble. Let`s play “Hardball.”
Good evening. I`m Chris Matthews in Washington.
We are following major breaking news on multiple fronts tonight. The White House is scrambling to respond to its latest personnel crisis after chief of staff John Kelly released two very different statements in the same day about a White House official accused of domestic violence by two ex-wives.
Meanwhile, the news from Wall Street is grim. The Dow Jones plunged 1,000 points today down 10 percent from its peak in just last month.
And then there was what is beginning to feel like groundhog day here in Washington. We are just five hours away from another government shutdown. We learned a short time ago that the White House has already advised government agencies to prepare for the possibility that the government will in fact shut down.
At the moment, senator Rand Paul of Kentucky is holding forth on a vote holding up a vote on a bipartisan budget deal. He has been speaking on the Senate floor against the bill for just over an hour. There he is.
The deal faces opposition from some on the left and right in the House. The bill adds up to a massive increase in domestic and defense spending, $300 billion for two years. It represents a major reversal for Republicans, the party of fiscal responsibility and deficit hawks.
According to their own 2016 party platform, does anybody read these things? They wrote, our national debt is a burden on our economy and families. A strong economy is one key to debt reduction but spending restraint is a necessary component that must be vigorously pursued. This also happens to be the same party that took President Obama to task for his spending.
Let`s watch that.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: PAUL RYAN  SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE ; Gender: N.A ; Race:  latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  In this generation, a defining responsibility of government is to steer our nation clear of a debt crisis while there is still time. President Obama has added more debt than any other President before him. And more than all the troubled governments of Europe combined.
Name: MICK MULVANEY ( DIRECTOR, OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think the fair question to ask, the money we borrowed yesterday do we intend to pay it back.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What`s reckless, Bob, is the $1.6 trillion deficit we`re running this year. What`s reckless is the $3 trillion we`ve added to our national debt. Our national debt is now the size of our economy. We begin to look a lot like Greece.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So what about that, Bob?
For more I`m joined by Charlie Sykes, author of “how the right lost its mind” and an MSNBC contributor, Eugene Robinson, columnist from “the Washington Post,” also an MSNBC contributor and Erica Warner who is a congressional reporter for the “Washington Post.”
Let me start with Erica. But what is going on, Erica, in terms of I know we have got Rand Paul, the true ideological conservative, the (INAUDIBLE) trying to stop the water coming through right now, the big deficit, the big debt growth. But what about the party itself? It seems like it has forgotten all those all truths they told us when Democrats were in office.
Name: ERICA WERNER ( REPORTER, THE WASHINGTON POST) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s right. As for senator Paul, he, of course, voted for the $1.5 trillion tax bill not too long ago. But he would say that that`s completely different the same argument you would hear from a lot of Republicans up here.
But yes, it`s been as your intro was indicating, it`s been a complete turnaround for Republicans. You could say that the tea party died this week. They have totally abandoned fiscal restraint. It`s out the window and it`s just spend, spend, spend.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Let me go to Charlie Sykes.
Charlie, I think the word conservative used to mean conservative. I mean, it meant conservative in foreign policy and all that but that went out the window. But then it still meant if you are a Republican, a little more tight wad than a Democrat. Democrat like my old boss Tip O`Neill, I once wrote a speech for him about deficit spending and he said that`s not me. We are not using it, OK. So even the old liberals would admit they were spendthrifts.
But Republicans in the suburbs and in the rural areas has been getting elected for years at the old (INAUDIBLE) thing, you know, we are not going to waste your money. We are going to keep – and the Democrats are going to spend it away on their groups or whatever.
Now the Republicans seem to have absolutely no religion at all based upon what has been going on with the tax cuts and these big spending deals on domestic and defense spending.
Name: CHARLIES SYKES ( MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, let`s put it this in some perspective. When you think about it I how big these numbers are. This may be a two-year spending deal but it is going to add $1.7 trillion to the deficit over the next ten years. Now you add that to the minimum of $1 trillion they added to the deficit with the tax cuts and you have a conservative Congress, members of Congress, who claimed that they were concerned about the massive intergenerational transfer of wealth and the national debt adding in the last seven weeks $2.7 trillion to the national debt. And one of the key architects of this is Paul Ryan whose entire career was based on warning about a debt crisis and the need to get control of the deficit, you know.
But this is the era of Donald Trump and the fiscal conservatives were routed in the Republican Party the moment that the Donald Trump, the king of debt, became the nominee. And now they have kind of rolled over and this is Trump-nomics.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  How do you explain that? Why are they rolling over?
I will go to Gene. I mean, Gene, it sort of a progressive as a literary politician. But I tell you, I don`t understand Paul Ryan. Everybody tell me how great this guy. But here, how great he is for years no. When is he going to be great? When is he going to be Paul Ryan that`s been promised?
Name: SYKES ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Yes, well, stay tuned for that. But I mean, I suppose their rationalizing it by saying look, the military has been badly hurt by the sequester and by the uncertainty of all of the CRS. And you know, and Secretary Mattis made a strong plea about the damage that has been done to the military by not having a budget. And that`s a legitimate concern. But there was a time when Republicans, conservatives would have said OK, if we are going to fund the military, let`s pay for it. That`s out the door right now. Donald Trump does not really care about debt. As we have seen basically, we have outsourced people like Paul Ryan have outsourced their fiscal policies to Donald Trump.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, Gene, you have been watching hypocracy from the mountainside for years with. These guys get elected by telling people, especially older people, we will porch (ph) your money. We will not spend your money. And now when it comes to keeping the government open and keeping everybody happy, paying off all the groups, they are for big buck spending on defense big spending on domestic just to keep the doors open.
Name: EUGENE ROBINSON ( MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, you know, first of all, this did not start with the Trump administration. If you look at recent presidents, Democrats have brought deficits down and Republicans have sent them – made them balloon. I mean, that is kind of what happened.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Why? Are they liars?
Name: ROBINSON ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Everybody likes to spend money.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think that`s true.
Name: ROBINSON ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The recent Republican Presidents have liked to spend money a whole lot. Second thing is –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think - tell me is war cost a lot.
Name: ROBINSON ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What`s kind of different now, though, is Republicans are kind of talking like almost like (INAUDIBLE), you know, because they have develop this belief in economic stimulus and doing it through a tax cut that for people having this money that they are going to spend on the economy is going to eventually increase tax revenues. That didn`t used to be Republican dogma at all but it seems to be now and I would like to hear Paul Ryan explain.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, they are spending money too. They are not just cutting taxes.
White House deputy press secretary Raj Shah was asked if the President was concerned about how much the Senate budget deal would cost. Here`s what he said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Is the President concerned about all of this spending? And what exactly is your plan to pay for it?
Name: RAJ SHA ( WHITE HOUSE DEPUTY PRESS SECRETARY) ; Gender: male ; Race:  asianindian ; Dialogue:  He is concerned about spending in Washington. He has expressed that for years.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, that was a non-statement.
Anyway, during the campaign – I don`t know what that means. During the campaign the President actually boasted about how proud he was to be a king of debt. In the private sector, how much debt he holds. Let`s watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: DONALD TRUMP ( PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I`m the king of debt. I`m great with debt. Nobody knows debt better than me. I have made a fortune by using debt. And if things don`t work out, I renegotiate the debt.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Somebody else`s money.
Anyway, let me go back to Erica about this. The politics of this, just the way they are talking on the hill, one of the Republican senators saying, when you ask them what happened to your fiscal responsibility?
Name: WERNER ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, if you listen to what they say, they still are fiscal conservatives and deficit hawks. And what they will say about this particular deal is that the military needs our real and legitimate, they claim. And that the only way to get that military spending is to go along with these domestic increases Democrats are demanding from their minority in the Senate.
But I think as you yourself were just saying is absolutely true which is that this is the party of Trump. The groups like the club for growth, the heritage foundation, that used to have some sway in this town no longer do. They are shouting into the wind. And Republicans are rolling over to what President Trump wants and regardless of that kind of vague statement from The Raj Shah, he is the king of debt. He seems to have no interest in cutting spending, cutting entitlements, entitlement reform is off the table. The President has taken it off the table. And there`s no end in sight to all the spending.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Let me go back to Charlie. I think as you are concern, I`m trying to divide - define is probably the right word, the meaning of the word conservative. It used to be you spend less then you are less involved in foreign policy, it is the only Taft model. We don`t look for Trump around the world. I guess it meant basically good prudish behavior in your private life.
How many mulligans is this President going to get and how many fields of endeavor? He gets mulligans in his private life as we know notoriously. He gets mulligans for his deficits. He gets mulligans for his foreign policy, dangerous behavior. Where is the conservative in the conservative party led by this President? Where is it? Can you find any conservative aspect of this President?
Name: SYKES ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Well, sure. I mean, if you look at the judges and maybe some of the regulatory roll back. But then the main point is that this is a party that`s not governed by any consistent principle anymore. This really is – Donald Trump, you know, has placed his seal on the party whether it`s because they are afraid of him or because it`s a culture personality, you know. Who is to say?
By the way, all of this spending, those numbers that I rolled out, you know, before the $2.7 trillion in additional debt that they have just layered on our children and our grandchildren, you know, that`s before the infrastructure. That`s before the Mexican wall. And that`s before Donald Trump`s my missile is bigger than yours parade. So, you know, we have just gotten started.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You saved that for the – you saved that for minutes, precious minutes. Go ahead, Charlie.
Name: SYKES ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Yee. NO. But I mean, you think about it, you know, what is left of the tea party version of the Republican Party? You know. And I think there`s going to have to be some debate about, you know, during the tea party with all of the complaints , you know, about the crushing debt and how we are becoming Greece under Barack Obama, was that is sincere or is everything just episodic? Is it just simply tribal that you just switch positions when you are in power? Because right now, all of that concern about the deficit seems so last President, doesn`t it?
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, if we keep losing a thousand points in the Dow every day for a couple weeks I think we are going to have to worry about the connection between government borrowing and the price of money because they are in fact ultimately connected. What you have to pay for money has something to do with how many people are trying to get money to borrow. That means the federal government.
Charlie Sykes, thank you, sir. Thank you, Gene Robinson, as always. Erica Werner, thanks for the reporting which has been our graph tonight.
Coming up, chief of staff John Kelly was supposed to keep the trains running in the Trump administration. But now he is embroiled in another controversy about defending an aide accused of domestic violence. The question is what did Kelly know when he came to the staffer`s defense.
Plus, former attorney general Eric Holder says that based on public evidence alone, Robert Mueller has an obstruction of justice case against this President. Is that why we`re seeing such a smoke screen from Trump and his Republican allies? It seems like the closer the special counsel gets to bringing charges, the more ferocious, the pushback and the distraction from Trump world.
And who cops out on top after the latest deal in Washington? Will either side pay the price for not being able to deliver on DACA?
Finally, let me finish tonight with Trump watch. He is definitely not going to like there one.
This is “Hardball” where the action is.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Welcome back to “Hardball.”
More drama on Wall Street today as the Dow Jones plunged more than 1,000 points. As I said it is down 10 percent now from the record high it has reached just two weeks ago. Down ten percent.
Let`s bring in MSNBC`s Ali Velshi for more on what happened today.
What happened and why, sir? The big why is the big one.
Name: ALI VELSHI ( NBC NEWS SENIOR BUSINESS CORRESPONDENT) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes. It`s well overdue, first of all. We needed to have a pullback on this market.
Here is the simple explanation. When the economy gets better, wages go up. Interest rates start to go up. When interest rates go up, you sit there with your money in the stock market where you are getting a good return but it`s risky. And you say, well, I can put it into bonds or a bank account which is now giving me more than one percent or two percent. So people slowly start to shift their money from stocks to bonds. That`s a normal part of the economy.
The problem here, Chris, is that it has happened very quickly. Bond rates have gone up. That`s interest rates have gone up very quickly. So people have taken their money out of the stock market. They are putting it into the bond market and that is causing the selloff in the stock market.
The bond rates are not going to go up forever. Interest rates only will go up a certain amount. But this has been a long overdue settling of this upward trend in the market over a long time. That is what we are facing.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  With the federal government out there borrowing more money because it`s cutting taxes and spending more, does that is drive interest rates up the fact the government has to pay more for money.
Name: VELSHI ; Gender: male ; Race:  asianindian ; Dialogue:  Yes, that is typically what happens. There are a bunch of other forces some of which push interest rates down. It all depends on how strong the U.S. dollar is and what kind of stability we have in the rest on the world. And that`s one of the issues. That there`s global coordinated growth. So central banks around the world are all thinking of tightening monetary policy which means increasing interest rates which means there is nowhere for the extra money to flow. And as a result people are taking their money out of stock markets. Because it`s not like you can go to England or Canada or Australia with it. So that does have an influence on what is going on.
Again, there`s nothing to do with panic in this market. There is no underlying economic problem that is coming our way. It is simply that stocks may have been overpriced and other options now exist.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You remind me of Walter Cronkite in the old days, the calming influence of Ali Velshi.
Name: VELSHI ; Gender: male ; Race:  asianindian ; Dialogue:  That is the best compliment I have ever had.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you. Well, it should be.
Up next, what happened to chief of staff John Kelly being stabilizing force in the White House? Remember that? There`s another controversy in the west wing right now, this time involving a top staffer accuse of domestic violence that was on his record. The question, what did John Kelly know and when.
You`re watching “Hardball.”
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Welcome back to “Hardball.”
Chief of staff John Kelly was hired, of course, to keep chaos out of the Trump White House. Yet once again today, he`s found himself grappling with a west wing controversy. It follows the resignation of White House staff secretary Rob Porter just yesterday after allegations of violent behavior by Porter from two of his ex-wives. The claims were first reported by the “Daily Mail.”
In a statement, Porter said these outrageous allegations are simply false. Well, since then both women confirmed their allegations to NBC News. Porter`s second wife Jennifer Willoughby spoke to NBC News today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: JENNIFER WILLOUGHBY ( EX-WIFE OF ROB PORTER) ; Gender: female ; Race:  nativeamerican,caucasian,eastasian ; Dialogue:  During the FBI background interview for security clearance, I shared with the FBI all the details that I have shared in previous articles including access to protective order from June of 2010 and police calls that I had made to our home.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  So you told the FBI that Rob Porter was abusive towards you?
Name: WILLOUGHBY ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  And one of the questions was, could he potentially be blackmailed. How did you answer that question?
Name: WILLOUGHBY ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  I actually had difficulty answering that question, because I believe that the people who had the power to blackmail him would be women who had been in personal relationships with him. So, in short, the answer could be maybe.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, the FBI was aware of the allegations against Porter, and he was never given permanent security clearance at the White House.
White House Deputy Press Secretary Raj Shah offered this explanation today:
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: RAJ SHAH ( WHITE HOUSE DEPUTY PRESS SECRETARY) ; Gender: male ; Race:  asianindian ; Dialogue:  The allegations made against Rob Porter, as we understand them, involve incidents long before he joined the White House. Therefore, they are best evaluated through the background check process. The truth must be determined.
And that was what was going on with Rob Porter. His background investigation was ongoing. He was operating on an interim security clearance. His clearance was never denied. And he resigned.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, the sloppy handling of Porter`s clearance and his high-profile exit yesterday are casting doubt on Kelly`s stewardship of the White House.
On Tuesday, Kelly defended Porter, calling him “a man of true integrity and honor, and “I can`t say enough good things about him.”
But just 24 hours later, Kelly changed his tune, saying in his statement: “I was shocked by the new allegations released today against Rob Porter.”
At the White House today, Raj Shah tried to defend Kelly`s shifting stance.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I know there`s been reports about the chief of staff. He became fully aware about these allegations yesterday.
Name: QUESTION ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian ; Dialogue:  What changed yesterday, absent a photograph, in terms of new allegations?
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I think what I just referenced. The reports had additional allegations. They had more information.
Name: QUESTION ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian ; Dialogue:  So you`re saying the initial reports where two former wives accused him of violence, both physical and verbal abuse, was not sufficient for him to say that “I think he`s a man of honor”?
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  There were a number of statements from the press secretary, from the chief of staff, from others that reflected the Rob Porter that, you know, we have come to know working here for over a year. The reports are troubling.
And I think the statement from Wednesday night reflects the Rob Porter that we had seen in these news reports and some of these credible allegations.
Name: QUESTION ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian ; Dialogue:  So, to be clear, what was so shocking that had changed? You said it was shocking. What was he referring to?
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s the full nature of the allegation, particularly the images.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  For more, I`m joined right now by Susan Page, Washington bureau chief for “USA Today,” and “The Washington Post” White House bureau chief Phil Rucker.
Let me start with Susan.
Tell us about this and how this relates to Trump and the way this White House is being run or not run properly.
Name: SUSAN PAGE ( WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF, “USA TODAY”) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, we know that General Kelly was brought in to impose some order. He wasn`t hired because had he great policy chops or great political instincts. But this was a disorderly White House. It was dysfunctional. And the idea was that he would make things work.
And certainly one of the things that you would think he would be paying attention to is the fact that one of the most senior aides in one of the most sensitive positions would not be able to get – for whatever reason unable to get permanent security clearance.
Surely, that`s something that would have come to his attention. We`re now told that he has known perhaps for months that these allegations existed, but he failed to take them seriously until the photograph came out of the ex-wife with the black eye.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Well, Phil, we all know that a full field investigation by the FBI is the norm and a requirement to get a job even in the Peace Corps, to become a Peace Corps volunteer. They go around to the old neighbors. They find – they ask you every about single place you lived your whole life every night.
Name: PHILIP RUCKER ( “THE WASHINGTON POST”) ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They go to neighbors you never even talked to them and talk to them about you. They go to your parents` friends to get a job at the White House. I went through the same thing.
The fact there was this problem, and it had something to do with violence, I would think that would be at least a yellow flag, if not a red one. Your thoughts.
Name: RUCKER ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  It should have been a giant red flag.
And what we don`t have from the White House at this hour is a true accounting what happened. We don`t know what the FBI told the White House what John Kelly knew, what the White House counsel knew, and why they decided not to act on this information until, frankly, Chris, it surfaced in the news media in those reports in “The Daily Mail.”
And there`s one important thing to keep in mind here about how John Kelly as chief of staff has managed the situation. Yesterday, when that photo first came out, according to the reporting…
(CROSSTALK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The black eye on his ex-wife, yes.
Name: RUCKER ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  The black eye photo, Chief of Staff John Kelly actually continued to stand by Rob Porter, continued to want him to stay in that job. It was not until well after Porter had announced he was resigning and this blew into a big media firestorm that Kelly put out a statement condemning domestic violence.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And Rob Porter had a big job.
Name: PAGE ; Gender: female ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Well, this is one of the most crucial jobs in the White House. This is the job that – the person who determines what paper flow there is to the president.
So, you see the biggest secrets the president sees, and you have a lot of -- it`s an incredibly powerful position. If you were going to blackmail somebody in the White House, this would be a great person to blackmail, because he has access to everything the president is going to read.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Wow.
Well, former Vice President Joe Biden told my colleague Andrea Mitchell that this latest episode raises questions how this White House functions.
Let`s watch the former vice president.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: ANDREA MITCHELL ( NBC CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  How do you explain his access to the president of the United States, and the chief of staff, frankly, in the last 24 hours describing him as a man of personal integrity?
Name: JOSEPH BIDEN ( VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I can`t explain it. I was briefed on the way in that when the president found out about it, he said go.
So, if that`s the case that the president never knew about it, good for the president.
Name: MITCHELL ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  How could the president not know that one of his closest advisers did not have a top security clearance? What does that say about the president and this White House?
(LAUGHTER)
Name: BIDEN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Oh, Andrea, look, I`m having an enormous difficulty understanding how this White House functions.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Phil Rucker – and I will get to Susan with the same question – does this reflect the conflict between this White House politically and the FBI, that they wouldn`t trust the FBI implicitly when they got these danger signs?
That most White Houses would say, whoa, let`s stop right here and get to the bottom of this. Call the FBI. Find out what the facts are and act. They wouldn`t sit and pussyfoot and wait months for this thing that was going on. Apparently, this went on for weeks.
Phil.
Name: RUCKER ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  It may be.
But, Chris, what the FBI uncovered in that background check regarding the domestic violence was in complete conflict with the sort of image and reputation that Rob Porter had within the White House. And I think the aides in the White House were more willing to trust what they – the guy who was working with them than to trust these women, which is in keeping, by the way, with the culture of Trump`s campaign and of his White House.
Remember all the accusations against Donald Trump of harassment and assault, and the line out of the White House was, these women are not to be believed.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But that`s the whole thing with domestic violence. These women marry guys who have this problem, this affliction or whatever you want to call it, this evil, and they don`t think they will have this, and then they do have it.
Name: PAGE ; Gender: female ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And then they marry somebody else who doesn`t know it, and then somebody hires them at the White House who doesn`t know it.
It`s obvious they don`t walk around looking like beaters.
Name: PAGE ; Gender: female ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  That`s right.
I think what – it seems to me it`s less that they chose not to believe the FBI than they chose not to believe the women who were making these accusations.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: PAGE ; Gender: female ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  And I think it`s entirely possible that these women might not have felt empowered to come forward publicly with their names, with their evidence if not for the MeToo movement. I think this is one more repercussion.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think the FBI was doing its job too so far. Let`s give them credit.
I think the FBI asked the right questions, and they got the right answers. They just – this administration didn`t act on the right answers.
Thank you so much, Susan Page.
Thank you, Phil Rucker.
Up next: The closer special counsel Mueller gets to bringing a case against Trump, have you noticed, the louder the protests and the distractions from the president and his pals. If Trump is innocent, as he says, then why isn`t he acting that way? Have you noticed?
This is HARDBALL, where the action is.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: DONALD TRUMP ( PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Regardless of recommendation, I was going to fire Comey, knowing there was no good time to do it.
And, in fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, I said, you know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story. It`s an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election that they should have won.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Welcome back to HARDBALL.
That was President Trump in May telling Lester Holt that the Russia thing was a factor in his decision to fire former FBI Director James Comey. It`s one of many pieces of evidence that federal prosecutors could use to build a case that the president obstructed justice in his handling of the Russia probe.
Now former Attorney General Eric Holder says that based on the public evidence alone, special counsel Robert Mueller already has enough for an obstruction case.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: ERIC HOLDER ( FORMER U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL) ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  If one looks at the dismissal of James Comey and the reasons why the president told Lester Holt he did that, if you look at the president`s attempts to try to get people who were the heads of the intelligence agencies to get involved in this matter, if you look at the president`s actions on the airplane with regard to that statement – there are a variety of other things – I think you technically have a case of obstruction of justice.
I`m not at all – I`m not saying that this is a case you would necessarily bring at this point. I don`t know what other evidence the special counsel has. But I think, just on the basis of what has been reported in the media, and assuming that that – those reports are accurate, I do think that you have a technical case of obstruction of justice.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But yet it appears, as Mueller gets closer to potentially making that case, the fiercer Trump and his defenders become in trying to muddle the facts.
In the last week alone, the president has tweeted about the specious Nunes memo, the efforts to discredit the Steele dossier, and the text messages between FBI officials, all to support his dubious claim that the Russia probe is a witch-hunt.
As Nicholas Kristof writes today in “The Times”: “Frankly, it`s suspicious that Trump is throwing up so much dust and trying so hard to legitimize the investigation. He is not acting innocent.”
Joining me right now is Neal Katyal, a former acting solicitor general and now a professor at Georgetown Law School. He wrote the regulations, by the way, that guide the Office of Special Counsel.
How do you see this from two sides, watching these two sides, of Mueller moving along, grinding along quietly, not doing any press, and then you see the president and his people coming up with all these memos and midnight rides and anything to confuse the game?
Name: NEAL KATYAL ( FORMER ACTING U.S. SOLICITOR GENERAL) ; Gender: female ; Race:  asianindian ; Dialogue:  Yes, you`re absolutely right.
Every time that Mueller or the other people on his team find something out, the president throws up some sort of chaff or dust and says, look over here, look over there or something like that.
And, at this point, Donald Trump is not acting like the president. He`s acting really like O.J. I mean, we defense lawyers know that, when you have a client who is guilty, you have got one good card to play, and that is attack law enforcement. Attack the prosecutor. Call them biased.
And that`s what the president`s strategy has been. And it`s a lot worse here than with an ordinary private citizen like O.J. I mean, O.J. is a private citizen. He has no duties to law enforcement or anything. But the president is, of course, oath-bound to stand up for law enforcement.
And the other thing is that O.J. or…
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, just to be fair about that – the metaphor there, Johnnie Cochran knew that the LAPD had a bad reputation, especially in the black community out there, for unfairness. So, he played into a reality.
It wasn`t like he created this bad image of the LAPD.
Name: KATYAL ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They had it.
Name: KATYAL ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Absolutely, 100 percent, Chris.
And that`s what makes this worse. The FBI is the pride of the world in terms of law enforcement. And the president should be, like every other president, standing up for the law enforcement and for the justice system and saying, look, I will cooperate. I trust you. We have the American justice system, which is the envy of the world.
Instead, this president goes and attacks them in a way no president has done. And it`s a lot worse than a private citizen. Remember all the weapons Donald Trump has at its disposal. He`s already fired the chief investigator, Jim Comey. He`s got an army of taxpayer-funded lawyers to defend him, unlike private citizens.
And, of course, he`s got his own guy, Rod Rosenstein, supervising his investigation, the investigation of him. So, that`s unlike any private citizen. And the idea that he then goes and denigrates law enforcement, boy, that is just a horrible thing.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Give us a sense of the next year. We know that the Congress is in doubt. The House could go Democrat this November, which means the Democrats on the Hill would have the power of subpoena. They would have the power to launch hearings and mark up and actually vote on articles of impeachment.
All that will happen if they get the majority on the House side come this November. But then the question is, what will likely be the procedure?
What do you expect Bob Mueller to do if he has a case? What will he do with his case, whether obstruction, money laundering or collusion, or all three.
(CROSSTALK)
Name: KATYAL ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Mueller is the consummate professional. He`s operated, as you were saying, quietly, building the case, looking at all the evidence, trying to figure it out.
And he will have a couple options available to him. He can either try and seek an indictment of the president, which would require the approval of Rod Rosenstein, Trump`s guy, or he could write a report, saying, I`m not going to indict, but I think crimes were committed.
Or he could clear the president. Now, if he writes that report saying crimes were committed, but I`m not going to indict, yes, I think you`re absolutely right. That would trigger impeachment proceedings in the House.
And, you know, at this point, the president has been – since he has been acting very much like O.J., I think we do have reason to be suspicious that the president could survive such an impeachment proceeding.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, let`s talk about that, because it looks to me there are a lot of progressive members, some minority members of the Black Caucus, for example, very hot on this president, negatively toward him. They don`t like him. They think he`s been unconstitutional in his very being sometimes.
You have got Jerry Nadler, who is a West Side New York liberal, progressive, who is going to be chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. He – I think he`s a constitutional lawyer besides. He knows what he`s talking about.
It does seem to me the system is ripe for action if this special counsel comes through with basically a charge that this guy broke the law.
Name: KATYAL ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right.
Chairman Nadler is, I think, a consummate professional as well. He`s not going to seek an impeachment of the president because he didn`t like him or doesn`t like his policies or something like that. He will do it based on the constitutional standard, a high crime or misdemeanor.
And, Chris, you`re absolutely right. If Mueller finds a crime has been committed, like obstruction of justice, of course it has to trigger impeachment proceedings. That is, after all, what our founding principle is, the rule of law.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you. It`s great to have an expert on like you, Neal Katyal, for coming on tonight. Please come back again.
Up next, the Roundtable is here with a look at the winners and losers of the latest negotiation in Washington. Will either side pay a political price for failing to deliver a deal for the dreamers?
You`re watching HARDBALL.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: LINDSEY GRAHAM  ( SOUTH CAROLINA) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Tonight, we`re going to end the madness. If we have to lose some sleep, we`re going to end the madness. The bottom line since 2011, all hell has broke loose, and we`ve been standing around here looking at each other, instead of listening to our commanders.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: CHRIS MATTHEWS ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Welcome back to HARDBALL.
That was Lindsey Graham from South Carolina just this hour right now responding to his colleague Rand Paul who is blocking a vote on a bipartisan spending bill. The government will shutdown at midnight tonight if they don`t get the vote by then.
Let`s bring in tonight`s HARDBALL roundtable. Sahil Kapur is national political reporter for “Bloomberg Politics”, Donna Edwards is former Democratic congressman from Maryland and Jennifer Rubin is an opinion writer for “The Washington Post” and an MSNBC political analyst.
Thank you all.
So, we`re going to talk here about this interesting confluence of politics. The cause of the Dreamers, these people brought here by their parents, they don`t have documentation but feel American. And everybody thinks – even conservative people seem to think give them a break.
But they`re not going to get a break. Why? How come their cause was lost by Schumer and rest of them? Why did they drop that cause?
Name: SAHIL KAPUR ( NATIONAL POLITICAL REPORTER, BLOOMBERG POLITICS) ; Gender: male ; Race:  asianindian ; Dialogue:  Well, because Republicans don`t want to link these things. They`re willing –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The Democrats said they wanted to.
Name: KAPUR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Democrats said they wanted to and now they backed off of that. They – the Senate Democrats caved because they got a promise from McConnell to have a vote, to have debates and amendments in the vote –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And they believe in him. Durbin believes in that. He said it again today.
Name: KAPUR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They`re willing to roll the dice. They know there`s not a guaranteed outcome. But they thought this is the best they can get. Nancy Pelosi doesn`t want to move until she gets a similar promise. It`s hard for her –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  She released all her votes today to go vote for this thing tonight.
Name: KAPUR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s plausible some of them will vote for this. Enough Democrats will vote for this to get it passed, because a lot of them like what`s in the bill itself and a lot of them don`t have a lot of DACA recipients in their district.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think that`s fair to say, people of Hispanic background.
Donna, here`s my thought – Nancy Pelosi put on a already good demonstration. I`m not knocking it. I think a lot of politics is theater. A lot of it is showing you`re young, show you`re gung-ho. You can talk for eight hours without stopping, without going to the bathroom.
It was pretty dramatic. And she looked pretty powerful doing it. Was that enough for the people on the progressive side where you are in the party to say, well, she couldn`t guarantee a deal for the DACA people in House but she at least showed her passion?
Name: DONNA EDWARDS  ( FORMER U.S. CONGRESSWOMAN) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, you know, I think it was actually important for her to say this is where our values are. I mean, she was speaking for the caucus even though there are members that are now released and are going to vote for that budget. On DACA, she was speaking about the value center of the Democratic Party. I think that was important so we could draw that you line and that the public can really see that there is a distinction between where we are as Democrats and where apparently the Republican conference is in the House.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I noticed something, one of our producers dug this fact up the other day. The Democrats had an advantage in the generic poll. Everybody, all the polls basically coming into this year said, oh, they`re going to win by double digits. They`re going to carry the House this November. It`s going to happen.
Then during the government shutdown, between the 16th of January and the 20th a few weeks ago, something happened. That double digit advantage in the generic number came down to about a half dozen, really close to maybe not getting it – not winning it. And that may have been the message that Chuck Schumer got and Pelosi got. You can`t win by shutting the government down if you`re a Democrat. It doesn`t work.
Name: JENNIFER RUBIN ( MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think that`s probably right. I think they made a decision rather than repeat this over and over again, definition of insanity, doing the same thing over and over again, they were going to do a different tactic. They were going to do their level best to get it through the Senate.
And I think actually they may because I think at this point, McConnell is telling the truth. He`s going to put an empty bill. I`ve got to think there`s 60 votes for reasonable DACA compromise.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  With the offsetting pain.
Name: RUBIN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Correct, and maybe not even the wall, frankly, because there`s a lot of moderates –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, stop, there`s going to be tough stuff in there about legal immigration.
Name: RUBIN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I don`t think so actually –
Name: KAPUR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That won`t happen.
Name: RUBIN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I don`t think so.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You don`t think they`re going to –
(CROSSTALK)
Name: RUBIN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Once it gets out of the Senate, then the pressure is on Paul Ryan.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You`re an optimist.
Name: RUBIN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And as Pelosi was doing last night in part was to try to focus everybody`s attention, it`s his fault. The Senate has gone along. We`re this close away and Paul Ryan, this is your moment.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, Ryan says he`ll do what will pass the president. He`ll do a bill that the president will sign.
(CROSSTALK)
Name: RUBIN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s excuse, no one knows, including the president what he`s going to sign.
Name: EDWARDS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Paul Ryan is the speaker of the house.
(CROSSTALK)
Name: KAPUR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  – putting a bill on the House floor, and President Trump wants cuts to family based legal immigration which will not pass the Senate.
Name: EDWARDS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  President Trump doesn`t care about policy.
(CROSSTALK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  – optimistic about our higher – what`s it called, the greatest deliberative body.
Name: KAPUR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I don`t understand the speaker`s optimism and reassurances about the Dreamers will be fine. I don`t see how that stacks up to reality where a majority of House Republicans for 12 years now have opposed anything to do with –
(CROSSTALK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Remember, we had a really good bill, a bipartisan bill about five years ago. They wouldn`t vote on it.
President Trump said earlier this week a shutdown would be worth it if he doesn`t get what he wants on immigration. Let`s watch. He wants the shutdown, according to this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: DONALD TRUMP ( PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  If we don`t change the legislation, if we don`t get rid of these loopholes where killers are allowed to come into our country and continue to kill, if we don`t change it, let`s have a shutdown. We`ll do a shutdown. It`s worth it for our country. I`d love to see a shutdown if we don`t get this stuff taken care of.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, tonight, the president tweeted: it`s time to end the visa lottery. Congress must secure the immigration system and protect Americans.
His identification of immigrants with killers – I don`t think anybody`s done this before.
Name: KAPUR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  In the State of the Union –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I never heard any politician do this before.
Name: KAPUR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It was the core of his emotional argument on immigration which, you know, was the core of his argument through the campaign, helped him win the Republican primary equating immigrants legal and illegal to MS-13, to terrorist, gangs and to criminals. That is the ideal way to reach out to the other side which is where again, I think –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s now the exactly Emma Lazarus, is it?
Name: KAPUR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  This is where things get jammed up in the house. The president is determined to get legal immigration cuts that he`s talking about a government shutdown.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So, bottom line before we go to the – tell me something, all three of you, do you think we`ll get something to help out these people who came here because their parents brought them here? Because I think Trump wants it off his back at some point.
Name: RUBIN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It will get through the Senate. It won`t get to the House. They`ll come up with a grand compromise to punt for two or three years.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You mean let them alone for two years. What about the Democrats winning the House next year? Does that help?
Name: RUBIN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It does. I think they will win the House. I see the Senate may be a tossup at this point. The question is, can they do it again and pass DACA?
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Then they would have to pass it again in the Senate before they got to the House.
Name: RUBIN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Then the question is –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Donna, do you think we`ll get something?
Name: EDWARDS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I see a different path because I do think on DACA that if something gets to the Senate, the amount of pressure that that`s going to on Republicans especially ones in vulnerable districts to really move this forward could actually make Paul Ryan put that on the table.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Optimism.
Name: KAPUR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I`m going to be a skeptic. I don`t think it gets through either chamber at this point unless something drastically changes. Unless Democrats win back the House.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Just minutes ago, I thought you were optimistic. What`s happened?
Name: KAPUR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, you`re an optimist.
Anyway, thank you. The roundtable is sticking with us.
Up next, they`re going to tell me something I don`t know. We`ll be right back. You`re watching HARDBALL.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, hundreds of thousands of Eagles fans flooded the streets of Philadelphia today for the city`s first ever Super Bowl parade. Fans in Eagles green stood 20 people deep in some spots, there they are, just to catch a glimpse of the hometown champs and their new Vince Lombardi trophy.
By the way, I got to hold that trophy just the other night with our executive producer Court Harson. There we are holding on to that, with Chris Long there. Anyway – we did it. Anyway, the parade wove nearly five miles through the streets before the players hoisted the trophy, the one we were holding, at the city`s famed Rocky steps up there on the art museum.
Yet another reminder that the long-time underdogs are underdogs no more. Fly, Eagles, fly, or as we say in Philly, go Eagles. Eagles.
We`ll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We`re back with our HARDBALL roundtable.
Here`s a quick update, by the way, where we stand on the government shutdown.
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky said he`s not giving in on his opposition to the spending bill, meaning there will not be a vote before the midnight deadline. That means the government will shut down tonight for at least a few hours, many more than that.
Sahil, tell me something I don`t know.
Name: KAPUR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Chris, behind Rand Paul`s fiery speech accusing his own party of fiscal hypocrisy is a staggering fact in the post-Jimmy Carter world, the deficit has risen under every Republican president and fallen under every Democratic president. Obama cut it by 70 percent, Bill Clinton eliminated the deficit. And now, that trend looks to continue under Trump with a $1.5 trillion tax cut.
And now, if this bill that he`s supporting passes, $300 billion and extra government spending over the next two years –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  If you want to live like a Republican vote like a Democrat.
Donna?
Name: EDWARDS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Look, Porter the wife beater used to be chief of staff for Orrin Hatch, the author of the Violence Against Women Act with Joe Biden.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  This is Rob?
Name: EDWARDS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, you did your homework. Go ahead.
Name: RUBIN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Two positions among the many not filled by this White House, first of all, the director of Office of Violence Against Women in the Justice Department. Secondly, the White House adviser on violence against women. This is a White House that couldn`t care less about this issue and we`ve seen again this week.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Hypocrisy reins supreme.
Sahil Kapur, thank you, sir. Former U.S. Congresswoman Donna Edwards, running for office again, Jennifer Rubin.
When we return, let me finish tonight with Trump Watch. You`re watching HARDBALL.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Trump Watch, Thursday, February 8th, 2018.
Some thing`s happen together Republican Party. It stopped being the Republican Party. As long as I`ve been following politics, there`s been one distinctive Republican trait. It was the near religious contempt for deficit spending. The government Republicans sermonize should not spend money it didn`t have.
Well, guess what`s happening under Donald Trump? First, the Republican-controlled Congress passed a trillion and a half dollar tax cut. And now, right now, it`s in the act of passing a huge spending hike.
The effect of all this will be to run up trillion dollar plus deficits on into the future, thereby ballooning the national debt. This growth in debt is not, let`s be clear, because of uncontrolled economic forces like unemployment or inflation, but directly because of the decisions of President Trump and his forces in the Congress.
And here`s the problem. For generations this government has kept in reasonable control because of the rivalry of the two parties. Democrats that push for programs that now make up the social safety net, Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid. Republicans pushed back on such spending to keep the government in balance so we don`t end up like other countries wallowing in inflation and related chaos.
But what happens when the Republicans stop being Republicans and simply agree to spend all kinds of money on domestic and defense spending in order simply to keep the government running? The answer is, we will soon find out. Perhaps we`re finding out already. In a stock market that`s dropping a thousand points a day. You can only borrow so much before people begin to wonder if you ever going to pay it back. You can only run up so much debt before people start demanding higher interest payments for the risk of watching you do it.
That`s HARDBALL for now. Thanks for being with us.
“ALL IN WITH CHRIS HAYES” starts right now.
###END
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.END
Copyright 2018 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.>




