Watch Videos
Show: HARDBALLDate: February 23, 2018Guest: Francesca Chambers, John Delaney

###START
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: ARI MELBER ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  “Hardball” starts now.
Name: CHRIS MATTHEWS ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Gates to open. Let`s play “Hardball.”
Good evening. I`m Chris Matthews in Washington where there`s been a big development today in Mueller`s investigation.
In a plea deal, another former Trump campaign official has agreed to cooperate with the Mueller team. Rick Gates served as deputy chairman of the Trump Presidential campaign. He also worked for Trump`s transition team. In court today, Gates pleaded guilty to conspiracy against the United States and making a false statement to investigators. That false statement was made in February 1st, this month, when Gates was already negotiating a deal.
At the heart of his deal now, Gates admits he conspired with his business associate Paul Manafort in a variety of criminal schemes related to their work with the Ukrainian political party. Manafort maintains his innocence though Gates deal now puts the pressure on him to make a deal of his own within Mueller.
The agreement requires Gates to cooperate in all matters with investigators including answering all questions, turning over all documents, and testifying at any proceeding requested by Mueller`s team. Gates is the third Trump campaign associate to strike a cooperation agreement with Mueller. The other two being Michael Flynn, of course, and George Papadopoulos.
Mueller`s probe has been speeding along as we`ve noticed piling up indictments and guilty pleas. This may account for some of the frenzy by the President himself who cannot help but see Mueller`s work as an existential threat to his presidency.
Today, Trump basked in the warm glow of his own base delivering a lively speech at CPAC with plenty of red meat on guns, immigration and his own accomplishments, of course, with nearly a word on Russia.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: DONALD TRUMP ( PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Do you remember I started running and people say are you sure he is a conservative? I think now we have proved I`m a conservative.
Right now we have a big race coming up in 2019. You have to get out. You have to just keep that enthusiasm. You have to just keep on going. They will take away your second amendment which will never allow to happen.
When we declare our schools to be gun-free zones, it just puts our students in far more danger. Far more danger. Don`t worry, you are getting the wall. Don`t worry, I heard somebody. Getting the wall.
I had a couple of these characters in the back say, oh, he really doesn`t want the wall. He just used that for campaigning. I said can you believe it? You know, I say every time I hear that, the wall gets ten feet higher.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  For more I`m joined by NBC news national security reporter Ken Dilanian, former federal prosecutor and MSNBC political analyst Paul Butler, MSNBC national security analyst Evelyn Farkas and “New York Times” reporter Ken Vogel. Thank you all for joining us.
Let me go to Ken Dilanian to start with. The question is, how much can they squeeze out of Gates to use against Manafort to use Manafort against Trump?
Name: KEN DILANIAN ( NBC NEWS INTELLIGENCE AND NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think a lot, Chris. I mean, look. Gates while he`s only pled guilty to two charges, the criminal information filed in the case shows that he is admitting to this much larger panoply of conduct, criminal conduct with Paul Manafort. You know, basically illegal lobbying, bank fraud, money laundering. He looks prepared to go into court and testify against Paul Manafort, his long-time mentor. He was with him for years. And Gates was – remained in the Trump campaign well after Manafort left. So we don`t note exactly what he may be telling about the Trump campaign.
But this is a horrible day for Paul Manafort. He is under now enormous pressure to plead guilty. Before this had been essentially a paper case, a document case, a very strong case. Now he`s got his former friend who seems willing to testify against him. It`s just got to be a devastating day for him.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Ken Vogel, how much does Gates, Rick Gates, know about Trump directly to him? How much can he rat out?
Name: KEN VOGEL ( REPORTER, THE NEW YORK TIMES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  He really helps Mueller in three areas. Number one is with Manafort as Ken just outlined. He had been with Manafort for decades. Number two is with Trump. He remained on the campaign after Manafort left. He remained with the Trump sort of in the Trump orbit through the transition. He worked on the inaugural campaign. And so could he potentially be privy to some conversations how to respond to the Russia investigation that might potentially get into this area of obstruction of justice.
And number three, he also has some visibility to the business side of Trump`s dealings. He worked for Tom Barrack and was close to Tom Barrack, he is a close Trump friend who Trump has done business with. And we keep one hearing Mueller`s investigation might veer off into Trump`s finances. Gates might have insight there, too.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Evelyn, I want to know about the bus. I worked in the politics. You are in the room. You hear other conversations. You know what`s going on. Does Rick Gates, does he know about what happened at Trump tower in June? Does he know about all these meetings with Kislyak, the Russian ambassador? They all bused in. There`s a lot of kibitzing in politics. Was he there to get that stuff and rat these people out, both of them, Manafort and Trump?
Name: EVELYN FARKAS ( MSNBC NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST) ; Gender: female ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  Yes. I would imagine if he is close enough to Manafort, not only is he around having, you know, enjoying the buzz but may be getting a buzz with Manafort over drinks or something, you know, on another occasion. Because, again, they have a special relationship. The other thing is –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What did you think of Manafort`s statement today, I didn`t sell out, this guy did.
Name: FARKAS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  (INAUDIBLE) and maintains his innocent. In the statement of the Manafort said quote “I had hoped and expected my business colleague, that`s Gates, would have had the strength to continue to battle to prove our innocence. For reasons yet to surface, he chose to do otherwise. This doesn`t alter my commitment to defend myself against the untrue pile up charges contained in the indictments against me.”
Well, a federal grand jury today returned an indictment today with additional charges against Manafort. The indictment say Manafort secretly paid former European politicians out of offshore bank accounts to lobby for Ukraine.
Let me go to Paul Butler here. How much can you pile on this guy, Manafort? He is 68 years old. He is looking at 80 years. And then there all these additional decades and decades and more decades today. Can they take all that back that they piled up if he will squeal?
Name: PAUL BUTLER ( MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  They can. Robert Gates pled guilty today because he is a criminal who was stupid enough to lie to Robert Mueller three weeks ago in the office of the special counsel. And then he decides he wants to flip and Mueller treats him like he would any snitch. He says what you got. And if Gates says I have stuff on Manafort, Mueller says that`s not good enough. Because I could go to the federal courthouse, watch from here, if I could get my credentials back, I`m not a prosecutor anymore, I could win that case against Manafort in a day. That`s a paper case.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You think this is directly to Trump?
Name: BUTLER ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  It`s about Trump. It`s about Trump Junior, it`s about Kushner, it`s about somebody way higher in the food chain than it is Manafort.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What I was struck by this, and in your wheel house. That the way he has to lay down can for the prosecution. Any question you ask, any circumstance, any document, whenever I call you in front of any group, it is like I`m putting sodium penathal in your arm right now and you`re going to work for me. You are going to be my guy now. He is powerful. He must have gotten something, Paul.
Name: BUTLER ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  He is getting a great deal. So he was looking at 40 years, now he is looking at ten years, but if he offers substantial assistance, and that`s less than two years. And so again –.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I heard today he might get probation. Is that possible?
Name: BUTLER ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  He only gets probation if he delivers Donald Trump.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Let me go to Ken Dilanian. Ken, what are you hearing about what he has proffered here?
Name: DILANIAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What the plea agreement says that if he offers substantial assistance, Mueller`s office may not oppose a motion for probation. So probation is very possible in this case, Chris.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Wow. Evelyn.
Name: FARKAS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  And I just want to add one more thing that I don`t think many people have noticed. But in the indictment, they mentioning that he was the link between the campaign and the RNC. And there`s a lot of question about money. You know, the money that they both got from their shady dealings in Ukraine. Did any of that money end up in the campaign or going to the RNC? So I think that`s another interesting element of all this.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s what after President Trump referenced his former rival Hillary Clinton today, the CPAC crowd launched into chants of lock her up. Let`s watch that show.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We have a very crooked media. We had a crooked candidate too, by the way.
Name: CROWD ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Lock her up. Lock her up.
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I will say this, folks. Everything that`s turning out, now it`s amazing that`s come full circle. Boy, have they committed a lot of atrocities when you look. Right? When you look. Have they done things that are wrong.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Ken Vogel, here`s the question. That crowd he has there is not interested in hearing about Russia. They are not really interested in gun safety obviously. They were interested in Trump.
Name: VOGEL ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What`s he up to? Is he feeling the frenzy? He reads papers. He is a guy ii the only guy that knows more what he`s done than Mueller is Trump. He knows everything he`s done. He may not know how much illegal he did, but he knows the conversations he was in, he knows what instructions he gave to Donald Junior, what he talked to Kushner about, when he talked to Manafort. He knows now know what Gates knows. He goes to bed tonight knowing what the hell does Gates know that he can use against me.
So he is almost perfect knowledge. This reminds me of Philly guy. The one that Georgie knows what Georgie`s done during the Abscond scandal. And so my question is, how can Trump operate? Is he as good at Clinton at compartmentalization? He can over did that rapid crowd and have a great time today. Knowing that the prosecutors and all those brilliant lawyers around him apparently half the great lawyers in that country on that team are coming to get him?
Name: VOGEL ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I don`t think he is that good at compartmentalizing. We see it on his twitter feed. He`s obsessed with it. And he was unable to move on to try to pass some of these big items that he has cited as this real goals. What you saw today was more an escape. It was Trump playing the hits, embracing the – or rather basking in the warm embrace.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right. Who was the first guy who said lock her up on stage? Michael Flynn.
Name: FARKAS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  General Flynn, exactly.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  so doesn`t that resonate with Trump? This doesn`t work out well the first time we chanted it?
Name: FARKAS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  It must in the back of his head.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Where the bald spot was. That was crazy today.
Name: BUTLER ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  In the back of his head that Mueller has charged five people with crimes in addition to the 19 Russians who we don`t have an extradition of agreement. They will never see a courtroom. Five of the other four have pled guilty. With Paul Manafort, it`s just a matter of time. He`s 69 years old. Again, easy cases to prove.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Why is he holding out?
Name: BUTLER ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  I have no idea. Again, it`s his constitutional right to go to trial. Again, he wants the best deal he can. You get the best deal if you`re the first person to plead guilty. He is going to be the fifth. He has to have something really, really good.
Name: FARKAS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Unless he`s really a Russian agent. I`m not kidding. I`m not even kidding. I mean, he will not make a deal if he is really a Russian agent.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What do you make of that, Ken Dilanian?
Name: DILANIAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, look. To that point, Chris, the past two days have led a lot of people to re-evaluate Paul Manafort. We learned in that indictment yesterday that by the time he joined the Trump campaign, he was actually hurting for money. That`s why he was committing bank fraud and tax fraud allegedly in going in indictment. And spit of cash from the Ukrainian oligarch had turned off. And so, you know, remember, he offered his services for free then we learned he is offering private briefings to a Russian oligarch. It really does put a spotlight on what exactly was Paul Manafort doing in the Trump campaign.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  He was selling jobs at the White House. One thing her was doing apparently.
Name: DILANIAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Apparently so. What was his relationship with Russians and what does he know about other campaign relationships with Russia?
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  All I knows that he wanted a house in Park Slope, the ritziest part of Brooklyn. He also wanted a house in the Hamptons and always being sure finance by interesting banking deals.
Name: VOGEL ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, he also wanted to re-up his credentials to be able to show he had connections that that were current in Washington, D.C. that had helped him. Having those connections. Let`s not forget he had made tens of millions of dollars from, you know, authoritarian regimes and oligarchs all over the world particularly in the former soviet states based on his connections to the Reagan campaign, in the Reagan administration. Here was a chance for him to re-up and up potentially make more money. Obviously not only did that not work out, it has re-downed to his severe detriment.
Name: BUTLER ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  If all these alleged bad dudes, Mueller has the baddest attitude about Paul Manafort. He served that warranty at his house in the middle of the night. Again, he doesn`t like this guy. So it may it be that Manafort is holding out because he doesn`t have a good deal even if he plea –.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK, last question. What`s the worse news for the other guy, Trump or Manafort? Who has brought more trouble to the other guy`s doorstep? I think they both have hurt each other. Anyway, a bad chemistry there.
Thank you, Ken Dilanian. Thank you, Ken Vogel, Evelyn Farkas and Paul Butler.
Coming up, are we starting to see signs is something might get done about guns, Florida`s governor is now calling for raising the minimum age to buy a gun to 21. But with the NRA dead said against that and Trump is reading from NRA`s talking points, will Republicans go along? You call that one. That`s ahead.
Plus, as the political debate hinges on the red hot issues of guns and immigration, of course, is there room in the Democratic Party for a moderate pro-business candidate for President? We`ll meet the first Democrat running for the White House in 2020 and find out how he plans to beat Donald Trump, should that be the challenge.
And much more from Trump`s tour at Florida at CPAC today. He attacked John McCain. Compared immigrants to snakes. And fed red meat to his base. It was classic stuff from a guy who knows how to keep his 35 percent happy.
Finally, lets me finish tonight with my hero for black history month.
This is “Hardball” where action is.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, President Trump said today that White House chief of staff John Kelly will have the final say over whether or his, Trump`s son-in-law Jared Kushner can maintain access to classified information. Due to a new policy imposed by general Kelly, those operating without a permanent security clearance are at risk of losing their access to top security information starting today. The move threatens Kushner who has been operating with an interim clearance for over a year. Here`s the President today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Jared`s done an outstanding job. I think he has been treated very unfairly. He`s a high quality person. He works for nothing. Just so, you know, nobody reports that but he gets zero. General Kelly respects Jared a lot and general Kelly will make that call. I won`t make that call. I will let the general who is right here make that call. But Jared`s doing some very important things for our country. He gets paid zero.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We`ll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Welcome back to “Hardball.”
Teachers and staff today returned to Stoneman Douglas high school in parkland, Florida, ahead of the school`s reopening coming next Wednesday. While they returned to their classrooms, President Trump was telling his audience at CPAC today some of those teachers should become armed guards, as well. Let`s watch him.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  There`s nobody that loves the second amendment more than I do. And there`s nobody that respects the NRA. They are friends of mine. They backed us all. They are great people. It`s time to make our schools a much harder target. People that are adept, adept with weaponry and with guns. And this may be 10 percent or 20 percent of the population of teachers, et cetera. It`s not all of them. This crazy man who walked in wouldn`t even know who it is that has it. That`s good. It`s not bad. That`s good. And a teacher would have shot the hell out of him before he knew what happened.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, it is up to a point he brought up again, the same point he brought up during his press conference with the prime minister of Australia.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Very, very important that we have offensive capability as well as defensive capability. That`s within the schools because when you have a gun free zone, you`re invite people to come in and do whatever you have to do.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Arming teachers is the most controversial proposal the President has made. He has also teased that that right teased support for stronger background checks for gun purchases, raising the minimum age for buying an assault rifle, as well as ban on bomb stock. He has teased all that stuff.
Well, since the horrifying, horrifying massacre down in Florida, the president has been more open to talking about gun control. But it`s an open question, I think, as to whether or not he`s actually going to do anything.
According to “The Washington Post,” the president is eager to be seen as leading the debate, but “he is reluctant to spurn the NRA outright and has been in frequent touch with Chris Cox, the NRA`s top lobbyist.”
It`s a strategy that has worked for the president in the past with DACA, say something now, do nothing later. Let`s watch that act.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: DONALD TRUMP ( PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I have a great heart for the folks we`re talking about, a great love for them. I have a love for these people, and hopefully now Congress will be able to help them and do it properly.
Whether they have a little company or whether they work, or whatever they`re doing, if they do a great job, I think it`s a nice thing to have the incentive of after a period of years being able to become a citizen.
This should be a bipartisan bill. This would be a bill of love. Truly, it should be a bill of love. And we can do that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  For more, I`m joined by Joy Reid, host of “AM JOY” here on MSNBC on the weekends, and Elise Jordan, MSNBC political analyst.
Thank you, Joy.
Name: JOY REID ( MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Joy, let`s talk about – I want to start with the teachers, because I have a very interesting theory about the teachers. I think what he`s setting up is something he knows that the teachers unions and teachers and common sense is never going to happen. They`re not going to put guns into holsters, because you and I know, if you were a kid in school, if you can imagine – I can even imagine going back.
(LAUGHTER)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You would be watching that teacher and saying, where is the gun? I think he`s got it in that right-hand side there on the holster. You would never take your eye off that gun the whole class hour. It would be obsessive to you.
And so it`s never going to happen. It`s like – he says NBA stars, you have to go into a metal detector to see a ball game, a basketball game. Yes, but we don`t have the basketball players carrying guns. We don`t have the pop stars carrying guns. We have guards doing it.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s insane teachers to have teaching while they`re showing their gun to somebody.
And here`s my question. Is that just so, when hell breaks loose again in six months or a year from now, he can say, it`s not my fault, they didn`t have a gun in the classroom, I told them to?
I think that`s what he is up to, because he knows it will never happen, but it protects him politically. My theory.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It protects him politically.
I agree. And it also allows him to give the NRA what they want, which is a massive gun buying program in every public in America. It would be lucrative for the gun industry. So, he`s singing the NRA`s tune, as you said.
Look, Trump has no experience with public schools. He didn`t go to public schools. His kids didn`t attend them. And so he doesn`t even understand how they work. The idea that an armed sheriff`s deputy who was the SRO in the Stoneman Douglas High School couldn`t stand there and take incoming fire from an AR-15, but, you know, the lunch lady, Mrs. McGillicuddy, could do it, it`s insane.
(LAUGHTER)
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And everybody understands that armed teachers, armed with locked-up guns in school will be found by the kids.
They will find a way get to them. And you will just have the shooters be able to acquire the gun in school, rather than bring it. The whole idea is absurd.
And, by the way, Chris, you and I both know that parents of public school kids – and my kids went to school in Broward County, in that county – I would never send my kids to a school where random teachers and the lunch lady and the janitor are packing. Absolutely not.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes. Well, you have said it right.
Elise, I think that`s right, because in my limited police training when I worked on the Hill, I was told the obvious thing. If you`re confronting somebody else with a gun in a life-or-death situation, your life at stake, you`re shaken. No matter how cool you are, Cool Hand Luke, you`re dealing with your own life.
And yet you need training for that, running around the block, creating a simulation of what it`s like to be under incredible pressure. And to a teacher that`s got their mind on, you know, 1620 and what happened with the Pilgrims or whatever, and at the same time, they`re all of a sudden psychologically ready to pull that gun out and shoot, it isn`t the same person, I don`t think.
Well, maybe I`m wrong. Maybe there are such people.
Name: ELISE JORDAN ( MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST) ; Gender: female ; Race:  latino,african ; Dialogue:  You just think of all the negligent discharges that there are in the military, and those are men and women who have been through advanced training to handle weapons.
And the idea that we are going to arm a significant portion of teachers in America seems ludicrous. And I wonder how many teachers who already have that training would actually want to bring their guns on campus as is.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK. It`s trouble.
Anyway, while the president and the NRA seem to think that arming teachers is a good idea, not everyone agrees. Let`s watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MARCO RUBIO  ( FLORIDA) ; Gender: male ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  I don`t support that.
And I – I would admit you right now I answer that as much as a father as I do as a senator. The notion that my kids are going to school with teachers that are armed with a weapon is not something, quite frankly, I`m comfortable with.
Name: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL  ( CONNECTICUT) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Half-cocked, harebrained, really toxic lunacy is the way to describe the idea of arming 10 percent to 40 percent of all the teachers in this country.
Name: GREG PITTMAN ( TEACHER) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think it`s a very, very, very bad idea.
Where do I put the gun? Do I put it on – in my pocket, in a holster, in my desk? Is it locked up somewhere?
I am in the profession to teach. I did not sign up to be SWAT, to be a policeman, to be in the Army, whatever. Certainly, other teachers that I have discussed this with, we all think this is a very bad idea.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Joy, let`s start with you on other part of it.
I have watched a pattern in politics. And Bill Clinton did it in a totally different way. You can say anything you want right now and do anything you want later, because the public`s attention changes.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Situations get in the way of it.
So, under pressure now, Trump will say, yes, I`m for bump stock banning, and, oh, yes, probably something, we may raise the age to 21 to buy an assault rifle, and maybe we will do something on the magazine size, too.
And two or three months from now, he will do the same thing he did with DACA.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  He was loving DACA to death, all – loved it. Oh, I cherish those young people. And then, two or three weeks later, it was, well, as long as we do something on family reunification, as we long as we get rid of the diversity lottery and all this other stuff.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So I get the feeling he will say all this stuff now, and then he will stop saying it and play some other game. I don`t believe he`s committed to any gun safety effort. Any.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Oh, no, clearly not. And he just said it at CPAC that, listen, the NRA pays me. They help with my campaign. They support us. We`re not going to back away from them.
And I think that Trump and other Republicans – Rick Scott is doing the same thing – they`re just trying to stop the pain right now. The NRA is losing relationships with corporate America right now. And, by the way, these kids are the Newtown kids, but teenaged, who can talk back, who can speak for themselves.
They`re under tremendous pressure right now. They`re just trying to relieve that pressure in the immediate moment. These people are not committed to the one thing you could do, which is stop the sale of these weapons of war that a 19-year-old can get their hands on easier than Sudafed.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  As Frank Sinatra wonderfully said, whatever gets you through the night.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And that`s the way Trump behaves.
Anyway, amid the public outcry for action, a number of very prominent American companies have begun to back away from their ties to the NRA. I didn`t even know they had ties.
That includes Hertz, Enterprise, Alamo and Chubb, an insurance company, which say sit will no longer underwrite an insurance policy for NRA gun owners. And another sign that things are changing, Oregon`s legislature passed a law banning people convicted of stalking, domestic violence or are under restraining orders from buying or owning firearms.
That – Elise, that seems to me very mild-mannered, these things. First of all, I didn`t know that a number of companies were giving mileage points and whatever and membership benefits to NRA members for being NRA members.
They were giving bonus points for being a gun supporter.
Name: JORDAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, Chris, I wouldn`t underestimate the grassroots support for the NRA.
They have a strong membership base that really is energized and a lot of single-issue voters. And certainly corporate America is going to try to do whatever they can to appeal to any large bloc like the NRA.
So, I do think it was significant that today that those organizations chose to severe their support.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But you know what, Chris? I would guess that very few, if any of those members are teenagers and young people.
The NRA`s problem is that the next generation and the generation after that, who have grown up having to do these mass shooter drills, are not going to support this extremist agenda of the NRA.
And the entire culture is moving in the Parkland kids` direction and away from Wayne LaPierre and company.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, let`s hope.
Thank you so much, Joy Reid. Good luck this weekend.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And everybody watch Joy, because Joy is the best.
(LAUGHTER)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And not just on weekends.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Anyway, Elise Jordan, thank you, dear. Thank you for coming on as well, Elise.
And up next, as we saw today, Trump has full command of his base. How do you beat him? Could the answer be a moderate pro-business candidate, someone closer to the center? We will meet the first candidate running for president on the Democratic side coming up.
This is HARDBALL, where the action is.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I will use the word my administration, as opposed to me.
My administration, I think, has had the most successful first year in the history of the presidency.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Our economy is blazing. Jobs are at a record level. Even they have to give credit for the kind of numbers that we`re producing. Nobody has ever seen anything like it.
They used to give the best speech of CPAC. Do they do that still? You would better pick me, or I`m not coming back.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Welcome back to HARDBALL. That was President Trump, of course, today bragging about how great he thinks his presidency is. Well, today`s CPAC speech was reminiscent of what a Trump rally was like back in 2016, full of boasting and pandering to his base. It`s an early glimpse of what a Trump campaign will look like again in 2020, a race that will likely take off right after the midterms this November.
I`m joined by Maryland Congressman John Delaney, who is the first Democrat I know of to announce his candidacy against Donald Trump come 2020. How do you beat this guy face-to-face? I have seen a lot of people that have – Hillary Clinton and other talented people. When they get on the stage with him, he tends to overpower them. What do you make of that?
Name: JOHN DELANEY  ( MARYLAND) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, you got to push back.
I mean, half of what he just said, if not more, was not true. And you just got to call him out for it.
But you also have got to tell the American people what you`re going to do for them. Right? It can`t just be about how bad he is. It`s got to be what we`re going to do for them.
But when he does that kind of stuff, when he says the kind of stuff he just said, most of which is isn`t true, you have got to call him out for it.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Democrats used to stand. I remember the days in the `60s and later, jobs, jobs, jobs.
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Guys like Humphrey and Kennedy, we`re going to create jobs, we`re going to put people to work.
I don`t hear that anymore. How come I don`t hear that?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, it`s a mistake, obviously.
And if you look at how we have done in these elections the last couple years, it`s obvious. I mean, we`re the party of the working family. Whenever we`re not talking about someone`s jobs, their pay and the opportunities for their kids, which is as important, Chris, as you know, the American dream – we have to be the party of the American dream.
Whenever we`re not talking about those things, we ought to have a darn good reason not to be focusing on them.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  When are we going to rebuild this country?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You mean infrastructure-wise?
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Everything.
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We have the worst railroads in the world. We have nothing. They`re a joke. They`re nothing compared to the rest of the world. Everything – you go to Berlin, they have the most – greatest civil engineering and bridges and stuff like that.
And we`re like third-rate.
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Because they have a functioning – at this point, they have a functioning government, and we don`t.
Hyperpartisan politics is destroying our country. It`s tearing us apart. And the problem is, it`s prevented us from doing anything.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  How come Eisenhower, who was a president with a Democratic Congress, built the interstate highway system, built it?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Because we focused on what was going on in the world.
We prepared our country for the future. And we focused on things that we agreed with each other on. We don`t do that anymore in politics. What the president is doing right now is, he`s not focused on the future. He`s not preparing our country for the future. He`s not leading conversations.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Is your party doing that?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think our policies are much more in line –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Do you think your party is talking about jobs right now?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think we`re trying to. I am. I can`t say everyone is.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Anyway, Democrats had a largely progressive message in 2016.
Let`s watch the Democrats Bernie and Hillary in 19 – well, 2016.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: JOSEPH BIDEN ( VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Imagine, every single home in America being powered by renewable energy within the next 10 years. Imagine every kid in America has potential of being able to be go to college regardless, as Katie (ph) would say, of their zip code.
Name: ELIZABETH WARREN  ( MASSACHUSETTS) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We want to let students refinance their student loans. Raise the minimum wage. Equal pay for equal work. Tougher rules, so the big banks can`t crash the economy again.
Name: BERNIE SANDERS  ( VERMONT) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I want each and every one of you to march right in and to demand that the Democratic Party makes it clear that it is on the side of working people, not Wall Street.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What are you going to do when they start putting the hands up in these debates? Because you will be in the debates. You`re already out there spending money on advertisement in Iowa for the caucuses.
They will say, who here is for single-payer? What are you going to say?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I`m going to say I`m for every American having health care.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  How about singer-payer, the government-run program? Are you going to for that?
(CROSSTALK)
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Listen, I think Americans want choice. I think everyone should have health care as a right.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So, you`re not for singer-payer?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I`m for everyone having health care as a right.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, you`re against single-payer. I`m hearing it.
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I think Americans should have a choice. So, I`m against the single-payer bills that are in Congress.
(CROSSTALK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You have made the point.
What about free college? These people are out there saying, Bernie and the rest of them, free college.
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think community college or some kind of –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Free college for this.
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I`m answering the question.
I think community college or some kind of training after high school should be free, just like I think pre-K should be.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But not free college?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Not free four-year college.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK. What about gun control? Are you for getting rid of the AR-15?
(CROSSTALK)
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Getting rid of it.
OK, abortion, where do you stand?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I`m pro-choice.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But simply pro-choice? How about the 20-month thing, you against that? The 20-week thing?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes. Listen, I stand for women`s reproductive rights.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So, you wouldn`t be for that 20-week – beyond 20 weeks?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You mean late-term?
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The Republicans, they put it in.
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, I didn`t vote for it.
(CROSSTALK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They say you can`t have an abortion past 20. Yes, OK.
What about tax reform? Did you like this bill?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, I didn`t like this bill, right? I didn`t vote for this bill.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What were you for? What would you be for?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I would have been – listen, there were parts of the bill that were good.
Fixing the international tax system. That was a terrible system. They fixed that. They should have paired that with infrastructure, like I proposed.
Wouldn`t this tax reform bill have been better, Chris, if instead of cutting the corporate rate to 21, they would have cut it to 25? The business community for 10 years lobbied for 25 percent. Every 1 percent of corporate tax rate is $100 billion. Imagine if we would have had $400 billion towards infrastructure in this tax bill.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK. You sound like a nuanced politician. You`re into nuance and discernment.
Are you a moderate pro-business Democrat?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Are you a moderate pro-business Democrat?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think all these labels are outdated.
Name: (CROSSTALK)DELANEY ; Gender: N.A ; Race: N.A ; Dialogue:  I have nothing against being called a moderate.
(CROSSTALK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Elizabeth Warren is pretty much against Wall Street. Bernie is pretty much against business, Wall Street. And they make very clear, strident statements against wealth in the business world up in New York, the deal-makers.
Are you like them? Are you suspicious of the market?
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, I`m not suspicious of the market.
Look, how can you be for jobs and not be for the private economy, business in this country? So, the thing – what I try to do is achieve things that progressives have long fought for, but I do it by working with the private economy and embracing the power of the free market system.
Right? That`s how we get the best results.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK. You will be there when everybody`s putting their hands up for single-payer, for free college, and you are going to be saying, well, I got to think about that one, that is tough?
(CROSSTALK)
Name: DELANEY ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, I don`t have to think about it. I gave you my answer.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK, great. Thank you.
A moderate pro-business Democrat, thank you, John Delaney, first guy in the field, by the way. And the others all have to be in by this time next year.
Up next: Donald Trump played all his greatest hits today at CPAC. He touted a plan to arm teachers, went after Senator John McCain, and even compared immigrants to snakes. In fact, he said they are snakes. That`s one way to keep that base fat and happy.
You`re watching HARDBALL.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: DONALD TRUMP ( PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  By the way, what a nice picture that is. Look at that, I`d love to watch that guy speak. Oh, boy.
I try like hell to hide that bald spot, folks. I work hard at it. Doesn`t look bad. Hey, we`re hanging in.
By the way, you don`t mind if I go off script a little bit because, you know, it`s sort of boring. A little boring.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: CHRIS MATTHEWS ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Interactive, isn`t he? Hey, welcome back to HARDBALL.
That was President Trump doing his thing, playing to a crowd at CPAC. That`s the Conservative Political Action Committee, and certainly showing his showmanship. Trump also touted his administration`s accomplishments as he sees them, mocking one of his adversary, Senator John McCain, unbelievably in the process.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: DONALD TRUMP ( PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Except for one senator who came into a room at 3:00 in the morning and went like that, we would have had health care, too. We would have had health care, too.
Boy, oh, boy, who was that? I don`t know, I don`t know. I don`t know. I don`t want to be controversial. So I won`t use his name.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, the president also resurrected one of the staples of his 2016 campaign, comparing immigrants to poisonous snakes. Let`s watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  This is called the snake. And think of it in terms of immigration.
I saved you, cried the woman. And you`ve bitten me. Heaven`s why.
Oh, shut up, silly woman. Said the reptile with a grin. You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in.
That`s what we`re doing with our country, folks. We`re letting people in and it`s going to be a lot of trouble.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Isn`t he married to an immigrant? I mean, I don`t know if he doesn`t make these connections.
Anyway, let`s bring in the HARDBALL roundtable. Geoff Bennett is a White House correspondent for NBC News, and Malcolm Nance is, of course, MSNBC terrorism analyst, and Francesca Chambers is White House correspondent for TheDailyMail.com.
Thank you all. Well, I don`t know – I watched very bit of it. We all – it`s part of our job to watch him and keep track of what he`s up to. I thought it was a show worthy of vaudeville. I mean, it was a great show. He should be sitting in one of the trunks with all the labels on it, what cities he`s been to.
It`s a show. But let`s talk about snakes. Dreamers is a romantic notion that the progressives have come up for people who are here because their parents brought them here.
Snakes – I just want to focus on that because I go back to the real evil of what he does and when he called his predecessor the president, President Obama an illegal immigrant basically. What`s it about that? Why does snake work?
Name: GEOFF BENNETT ( NBC NEWS WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT) ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Snake. Sneaky. Poisonous.
Name: BENNETT ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, using the snake poem as an allegory for immigrants who come to the country.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK, go ahead.
Name: BENNETT ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  My point is again, the president does not like to challenge his core supporters on the things they care most about, whether it`s immigration or health care or gun control. So, the president on one day says he wants a DACA bill with heart and in front of a group of conservative activists rolls out this –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Malcolm, everybody knows the immigration thing is both personal and border and all kinds of things. But when you work with the people, if you have them working for you or doing any kind of work, you realize that even the people that get here with nothing going for them, they`ve got a skill. They can paint. They`ve learned enough to make a living here.
The idea the poorest most desperate that come here are not ready to work is crazy. Maybe the next generation won`t be as hard working. But when you get here, you`re the hardest working person in the country. Why is he knocking that?
Name: MALCOLM NANCE ( FORMER U.S. NAVAL INTELLIGENCE OFFICER) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I don`t know. I think he uses that snake to be an insidious term like snake in the grass.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: NANCE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Like these people are working to undermine –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Who likes snakes anyway.
Name: NANCE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You know, that`s just herpetologists.
But he is really making this as you said, an allegory that these are enemies who are infiltrating their way into our society. This entire nation except for the natives are immigrants. It`s insulting to everybody.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Not all by their own choosing, by the way.
Name: NANCE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Back to Alexander Hamilton, right? He was an immigrant. So why –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Melania. It`s ironic.
Name: NANCE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, you know, her chain migration. This is just absolutely insulting to American people.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK, here`s what he does. He plays on the good intuition we have of compassion. You know, even if you`re a conservative on immigration issues, you still go, yes, but individually, I like these people. Individually, I think they`re here to work hard. I want to help them. Individually maybe we have to have rules and enforce them.
But he says if you`ve got compassion, you`re that stupid lady that buy – that liked that snake. The snake. You`re that – in other words, he`s attacking your compassion towards immigrants as the way that you`re the fool. That`s what`s interesting about this allegory to the story.
Name: FRANCESCA CHAMBERS ( WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT, THE DAILY MAIL) ; Gender: female ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  I`m with Jeff here. This was vintage Trump. He used to read the snake on the campaign trail for people who are not familiar with his rallies. He loved to go into this poem. This isn`t the first time he brought it up.
And what you saw at CPAC there was him getting really riled up by the audience.
(CROSSTALK)
Name: CHAMBERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  It`s a very – his people.
Right, exactly, and then, do you want me to read it? OK, I guess I will. You`re making me. And they`re riling him up. And he was giving it back.
Look, he was up there a long time past the amount he was supposed to be. He was having a great time. I think part of the reason.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Why John McCain? The man`s in bad health right now.
Name: CHAMBERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Well, I think –
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  He may not make it back to the capitol.
Name: CHAMBERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  He realized that and he did not say him by name.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But everybody knows it was him.
Name: CHAMBERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  And what is interesting about that obviously is that he did that at a conference for Republicans, for conservatives. But I think that comment alone reflects how much the conservative movement has moved from where it was to being the movement of Donald Trump.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK, we got to go now. The roundtable sticking it with us.
Up next, we`re going to cap off this week`s celebration of Black History Month. Each member of this roundtable will tell us their hero in African history.
You`re watching HARDBALL.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, President Trump`s plans for a military parade are beginning unfortunately to take shape. “Politico” reports that the president has directed the Department of Defense to organize a parade that would take place on November 11th, Veterans Day. According to report, the instructions were outlined in a memo sent to Defense Secretary James “Mad Dog” Mattis. It calls for the parade which could cost as much as $30 million to begin at the White House and end at the U.S. capitol.
We`ll be right back.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We`re back with the HARDBALL roundtable.
This week, we`re celebrating Black History Month, of course, we`re asking each of our roundtable guests to tell us which African-American figure has most inspired them personally.
And Geoff is first.
Name: BENNETT ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  The first I want to highlight is Lucille Bridges. She is the mother of Ruby Bridges who was the 6-year-old who integrated the all white elementary school in the South back in the `60s. The reason I mention her is because I saw a picture not long ago that featured her mother. You could see in her eyes the steely resolve on her face as she walked her daughter, 6 years old through what was a gauntlet of evil personified.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Hate.
Name: BENNETT ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Of hate, yes. That`s right.
And it reminded me of all the contributions made to the civil rights movement by particularly black women who are the unsung heroes and provide the moral backbone to that movement.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And Vivian Malone is another one.
Name: BENNETT ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Go ahead. Malcolm?
Name: NANCE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, mine, of course, is a spy. And one of the first double agents in U.S. history by the name of James Lafayette. He`s actually James Armistead Lafayette. But that was his slave owner`s name. He took the Lafayette because the Marquis de Lafayette who was serving with George Washington infiltrated him into the camp of British General Corn Wallace, made him his personal aide.
He actually was used by the British to go back and spy on the Americans. The Americans gave them false information. He took real information. And at the battle of York town when they lost, he went back to the Marquis de Lafayette and at the surrender, General Corn Wallace said, you`ve not only taken my sword, you`ve taken my aide. He said he has been mine the whole time, sir.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Wow, a mole. I love it.
Name: NANCE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  A complete double agent.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK, Francesca.
Name: CHAMBERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  All right. I`m going really old school. I really, really already look up to Harriet Tubman. I`ve always thought what she did was really inspiring. And I think when the going gets tough, right, the tough get going, anything she`s doing, he`s a really good role model for young women.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What did she do?
Name: CHAMBERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  The Underground Railroad, come on, Chris.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Say it out loud.
Name: CHAMBERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Yes, a spy, too. Underground Railroad. She made 13 missions.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Tell me what the Underground Railroad was.
Name: CHAMBERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  The Underground Railroad was brought slaves from slave states into the north and they were in safe houses and helped them get out of slavery.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  All the way to Canada, right?
Name: CHAMBERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Sometimes really far. She, of course, has some ties to my home state Kansas and John Brown. I actually went to school in Lawrence which was burned down during that amount of time. So, something that`s really important to me.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  John Brown looks good in history, too.
Thank you, Geoff Bennett. Thank you, Malcolm Nance and Francesca Chambers.
When we return, let me finish tonight with my own hero for Black History Month. You`re watching HARDBALL.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Let me finish tonight with Black History Month. You heard our roundtable talk about which figures inspired them, Lucille Bridges, James Armistead Lafayette, and Harriet Tubman, of course.
Well, all week we`ve celebrated African-Americans in history. Let`s watch.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Toni Morrison, he was the first African-American to win a Nobel prize for literature.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Barbara Jordan, she was a trailblazer, a political figure ahead of her time.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Catherine Johnson, who graduated from college at 18, was a mathematical genius.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Clarence Jones is a lawyer who was Martin Luther King`s lawyer.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Recy Taylor, a sharecropper from Alabama who in 1944 was abducted and gang raped by six white men.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Former Detroit Mayor Coleman Young.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  I choose one my mentors, Gwen Ifill.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well-respected black journalist who recently passed away, Lerone Bennett.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Because it`s baseball season coming upon us, I want Jackie Robinson.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  A leader who as a young student rode buss in the South to stand up to entrenched forces, and that`s John Lewis.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  As a journalist, Chris, I`m going to look to W.E.B. Dubois.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s that kind of person who builds our cities, who saves our communities.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Ida Clark. Can you Google her?
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, you can.
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Good.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And she was my grandmother.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATTHEWS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Anyway, I`d like to suggest another name for the list, the great entertainer and civil rights activist, Harry Belafonte. He played an enormous role in the movement both out front and off stage. He was able to work with political figures like Bobby Kennedy while never giving up his militancy, his great credibility with the activists led by Dr. King.
Well, that`s HARDBALL for now this week. Thanks for being with us.
“ALL IN WITH CHRIS HAYES” starts right now.
###END
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
Copyright 2018 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.>

