Watch Videos
Show: THE LAST WORD WITH LAWRENCE O’DONNELLDate: February 15, 2018Guest: Andrew Gillum, Chris Whipple

###START
LAWRENCE O’DONNELL, MSNBC HOST: Good evening, Rachel.
And, of course, we remember for candidate Trump, there was nothing more important than fixing the V.A.
RACHEL MADDOW, MSNBC HOST, “TRMS”: Yes.
O’DONNELL: And now, $4,000 in airport parking to me is the biggest mystery on that entire list.
MADDOW: The overcharges in airport parking, the only thing it makes me think is like maybe they actually parked their car on a baggage carousel while it was circulating, and that’s the kind of ticket you get for doing that. I mean, in 10 days, how can you get $4,000 for parking?
O’DONNELL: That is the mystery of the whole thing. That’s the one I – figured that one out, Rachel. Report back, please?
MADDOW: Will do. Thank you, Lawrence.
O’DONNELL: Thank you, Rachel.
And tonight’s breaking news, Katelyn Polantz and Sara Murray are reporting at CNN.com that the Trump campaign advisor and Paul Manafort associate Rick Gates is in the final stages of negotiating a plea deal with special prosecutor Robert Mueller. If Rick Gates does plead guilty, he would become the third criminal defendant to plead guilty and cooperate with the special prosecutor following in the footsteps of Michael Flynn and George Papadopoulos.
NBC News was first to report tonight that former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon was interviewed by the special prosecutors staff over multiple days this week, according to two sources familiar with the proceedings. According to NBC News, Bannon spent a total of some hours in conversations with the team led by Mueller.
Tonight, a person familiar with the process told “The Associated Press” that Steve Bannon answered every question that was put to him by Mueller’s team. Last month, “The Daily Beast” reported that what they call a lawyer close to Robert Mueller’s investigation, a source close to Robert Mueller’s investigation, which could have been any one of the defense lawyers in the case, said that before the release of Michael Wolff’s book “Fire and Fury”, the special counsels team indicated zero interest in questioning president Donald Trump’s former chief strategist Steve Bannon.
In “Fire and Fury”, Steve Bannon described this conversation with President Trump: I said, why did you say it was off-limits to go after your family’s finances? And he says, well, it is. I go, hey, they are going to determine their mandate you may not like it, but you just guaranteed if you want to get anybody else in the special counsel slot, every senator will make him swear that the first thing he’s going to do is to come in and subpoena your f-ing tax returns. And he goes, that’s not their mandate. Seriously, dude?
In “Fire and Fury”, Steve Bannon also said this about Donald Trump Jr.’s meeting with the Russians in Trump Tower during the presidential election: The chance that Don Jr. did not walk though these people up to their father’s office on the 26th floor is zero, said an astonished and derisive Bannon.
Today, Steve Bannon met with the House Intelligence Committee investigators behind closed doors and refused to answer questions related to the transition period and his tenure in the White House. The committee, including some Republicans on the committee, are considering possible further steps to get Steve Bannon to answer questions, possibly including contempt of Congress charges.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
REP. ADAM SCHIFF (D-CA), RANKING MEMBER, HOUSE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE: Certainly, it will be our recommendation to our leadership that we initiate contempt proceedings, and I hope that we have a meeting on the minds. I expect that we likely will judging from the comments that my colleagues the majority have made publicly about the necessity of compelling answers to these questions.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
O’DONNELL: Joining us now, John Heilemann, national affairs analyst for NBC News and MSNBC. Also with us, Jill Wine-Banks, former assistant Watergate special prosecutor and MSNBC contributor. And Ron Klain, former chief of staff to Vice Presidents Joe Biden and Al Gore, and a former senior aide to President Obama. He’s also the former chief counsel to the Senate Judiciary Committee.
And, Jill, I want to start with you and on this news that Steve Bannon spent maybe 20 hours with the special prosecutor and answered every single question.
JILL WINE-BANKS, MSNB CONTRIBUTOR: Well, it stands in stark contrast to what happened in Congress today. So, I think it’s a good step and there’s probably a lot of information that Bannon can offer that will be very helpful to Mueller.
O’DONNELL: And, Ron, the sources of information to the investigators are surprising now. There’s a couple of books. There’s “Fire and Fury”. There’s another book about White House chiefs of staff which Reince Priebus is now quoted in.
But Steve Bannon certainly gave the prosecutors an awful lot to study that might explain why this turned into 20 hours.
RON KLAIN, FORMER CHIEF OF STAFF TO VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN: Yes, there’s plenty of basis to ask Steve Bannon questions and I have to say, Lawrence, you know, it is infrastructure week and if Steve Bannon spent 20 hours with Robert Mueller, my guess is he was paving a road to Gerald Kushner’s front door. I mean, you know, you look at the evidence the Bannon has about Kushner and his – in “Fire and Fury” and other sources, him tearing apart Kushner for the firing of Jim Comey, his awareness of Kushner’s role in dealings with the Russians during the campaign, and I think you put all this together and I think, you know, if you’re Jared Kushner, it’s been a pretty nerve-wracking couple of days here to see Steve Bannon singing a very long song to the special counsel.
O’DONNELL: John Heilemann, I want you to give us a perspective on Rick Gates, but first, let’s listen to the president talking about Rick Gates.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Come on up, Rick. So, we have a great group of people and we have a group of people that really wants to win and I think knows how to win and we’ve also have been winning all our lives. This group of people in front of me, I know so many of you, we’ve been winning all our lives.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
O’DONNELL: And, John, we just saw Rick Gates staking his position there behind Donald Trump. If he becomes a guilty plea and he’s cooperating with the special prosecutor, life just got a lot harder for Donald Trump.
JOHN HEILEMANN, MSNBC NATIONAL AFFAIRS ANALYST: Yes, that’s right, Lawrence. I will say two quick things about Bannon first. One, Ron said he’s sing a long song. Steve does not know any short songs. He’s not a Beatles guy. He does “Stairway to Heaven” almost every time he talks about anything. So, that’s one thing.
The second thing is Bannon’s view was very clear. He both regards Mueller as the only game in town. Mueller is the person who can put him in jail. The House Intelligence Committee cannot put him in jail. He thinks House Intelligence Committee is kind of a bunch of clowns. He’s not going to play with them but he’s going to play with Mueller.
So, Rick Gates, you know, the history of the Trump campaign is a – is enacted three parts, right? You’ve got the Lewandowski era, the Manafort era, and the Bannon era.
And there are not that many people who span those last two eras besides the people who were very close to the president’s family, right, that most of the Manafort era and the Lewandoski era people who were kind of adjutants to one of those two, again, there are some exceptions, but many of them did not stick around for later eras. Rick Gates was a Paul Manafort guy through and through, who was so important and knew so much about what was going on in the campaign from that period when some very dodgy things went on he was so important that Bannon said, I want to keep Rick Gates around.
And it was surprised a lot of people in the Trump campaign that Rick Gates stuck around the campaign after Manafort was gone, but he did stick around and played a really important inside role in that campaign. So, if there’s someone who has visibility into the issues related to collusion or possible collusion, conspiracy and possible conspiracy, Bannon doesn’t know that much firsthand about what happened before he got there, Manafort doesn’t know anything about at what happened after he left.
Rick Gates knows both sides of that of that wall and that makes him on the question of collusion, not as much of the obstruction question but on the Russia question, that makes him a very, very valuable witness to Bob Mueller and a very dangerous man to Donald Trump.
O’DONNELL: Jill, your reaction to the possibility that the special prosecutor might have yet another cooperating witness pleading guilty.
WINE-BANKS: It’s just one more piece of the puzzle that’s fitting together. It’s showing it’s not a fishing expedition it’s not a witch-hunt. This is a serious thing. And I think it also – Gates cooperating means that he may also be able to testify against Manafort, and Manafort may have a lot of information that he might be forced to produce.
And I just want to add to what John said about Bannon because Bannon can’t really treat Congress the way he is. It sounds like even the Republicans are ready to hold him in contempt and the White House is clearly abusing the concept of executive privilege. They are stonewalling. They are obstructing justice by saying here are 25 scripted questions, the answers to all of them are no.
That’s not cooperation. That is stonewalling. That’s obstruction. It’s exactly what Nixon did. It’s one of the charges that was in the impeachment against him. And I think that it might lead to that here too.
KLAIN: Yes –
O’DONNELL: Go ahead, Ron.
KLAIN: Well, yes, but I think there’s also an alternative theory here, which it’s possible that the reason Bannon is stiffing the House Intelligence Committee maybe as John said because he thinks they’re clowns. Partly, it’s the direction of the White House as Jill said, but there’s a third reason, because I think Bannon knows everything that gets said in that committee gets reported back immediately to the Trump White House. It’s a sieve and a source for the Trump White House.
And if Bannon is telling prosecutors, telling Mueller tales about Don Jr. and tales about Jared, if he’s coming clean on what he knows about those two people so close to the president that it doesn’t surprise me that he is not repeating those tales in the House Intelligence Committee because he does not want that information fed back to the president and his closest allies and family members.
HEILEMANN: Very good point.
O’DONNELL: John, that’s a – there’s the – it doesn’t really matter we keep saying it. The congressional committees are interesting but the only thing that really matters is the Robert Mueller investigation.
HEILEMANN: Right. I think that’s right and I think it’s – I mean in the end, I think that’s right.
Look, I agree with Jill. You shouldn’t be allowed to stiff the committee, whether you think they’re clowns or not. You shouldn’t be acting under the direction of the White House. The assertions of privileged that they’ve offered are absurd and overbroad.
There’s no question all those things are true. The thing I was trying to channel is what how Bannon sees this situation. I agree with Ron that there’s this extra element here.
Bannon is of someone who regards himself as truth teller. He does believe that when he noticed that although I think he has many complaints with Michael Wolff and how Michael Wolff handled the terms of their interviews maybe and how some of those conversations were conducted privately, he’s not gone out and attacked Michael Wolff.
He’s not taken back a word that he said in the book, and I think part of that is because he knows he’s got – he’s caught on. He’s on the record. He’s got his words are recorded. But also I think he thinks he’s told Michael what the truth what do you really thought at the time and that reflects the animus that he feels certainly towards Jared Kushner which is intense.
And I think it’s not that he feels so much animus towards Don Jr. as it is a certain kind of low regard. He does not take Don Jr. seriously as of the kind of his own self conception, the serious grand strategist, master of the understanding of the great movements of history et cetera, et cetera.
Between those two things, the disdain he has for Don Jr. and the contempt and hatred that he feels for Jared, there is a lot of emotional and psychological baggage and motivating factors that come into this in addition to his sense that like he is not going to go down for any of these people.
WINE-BANKS: You know, John and Ron are both right, but the Congress is looking at a different thing than Mueller. Mueller is looking at what crimes have been committed and by who. Congress should be looking at how do we prevent the Russians from hacking and hurting our election in 2018. We know they’re already at it. They know they did it in 2016, and we need to protect our electoral system.
So, Congress ought to be focusing and doing something about that.
O’DONNELL: And, Ron, to the Rick Gates development, again, the – obviously, the special prosecutor really needs to get a conviction wants to get – a conviction on Paul Manafort so that the most in some ways – the most important stuff to get out of Rick Gates is how do you help us get a conviction with the case we’ve already filed? But is that enough? How much more do they want from him?
KLAIN: Well, I think they want whatever he has and I think they want quite a lot. Look, Donald Trump can kind of pretend that Papadopoulos was the coffee boy, but as is showed in that tape you ran earlier, Lawrence, Rick Gates was one of the senior most members of the Trump campaign and someone who Donald Trump himself said, we know was a key part of the thing.
So, I think when you’ve got this amazing case of the president’s senior national security adviser Mike Flynn pleading guilty and now apparently we’re on the eve of one of the top people’s campaign Rick Gates pleading guilty. The noose is really tightening, and that noose tightens first on Paul Manafort, the chairman of the campaign. We’ve never seen anything like this since Watergate. People of this level being criminally convicted in president’s campaign, president’s inner circle.
You’ve got the news really tightening. It goes to Manafort, but Gates probably as John alluded to earlier had a lot of direct exposure to Donald Trump, knows a lot of what happened here. This is key development in this investigation.
HEILEMANN: You have to understand one of the things about what happened in that period after Manafort left. Manafort, one of the things he was trying to do was professionalize that campaign, and Rick Gates was helping him do that. And when Bannon came in, Bannon recognized he was not a manager. He was not an operating officer. Bannon was focused on Trump’s message. And he spent most of his time in the campaign in that August, September, October, November, focusing on getting Trump to say the nationalist things that Bannon wanted him to say that he thought would help him win the White House.
So, Bannon was not an operational figure. That was why Gates was so important to Bannon because Gates was the guy who was the COO in some sense of the campaign, along with Jared Kushner had a huge role in terms of actually running that operation. So, this is a guy who knows in some ways more than Bannon knew about what happened in that crucial period from August through – the middle of August through – to November 8th.
There are a handful of people who know the most about the inner workings of what went on in Trumps world from March of 2016 until the end. Ricketts is one of them.
O’DONNELL: John, Jill and Ron, thank you all for joining us tonight. I really appreciate it.
WINE-BANKS: Thank you.
O’DONNELL: Up next, Sarah Sanders just can’t take it anymore. She doesn’t want to do any more White House briefings about what John Kelly knew and when he knew it about Rob Porter. “Politico” says she is demanding that John Kelly himself step up to the microphone.
And the president and the governor of Florida today guaranteed that American mass murderers and Florida mass murderers in particular will always be the best-equipped mass murderers in the world.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
O’DONNELL: The White House press secretary just can’t take it anymore. She doesn’t want to have to answer another question about what John Kelly and Don McGahn knew and when they knew it about White House aide Rob Porter being charged with domestic violence by both of his former wives.
And so, according to “Politico”, Sarah Huckabee Sanders wants John Kelly and Don McGahn to take the heat at the microphone themselves. “Politico” says that Sarah Huckabee Sanders wants White House counsel Don McGahn or a Chief of Staff John Kelly to brief press directly according to a person close to the White House. A senior administration official said later Wednesday that Kelly had been set to take the podium until the decision was made to cancel it. The White House then denied that there was any plan for Kelly to brief reporters on Wednesday.
Yesterday, House Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy sent a letter to the FBI director demanding to know exactly who was told what about Rob Porter by the FBI and when they were told it. Today, Trey Gowdy sent a letter directly to John Kelly, requesting a list of all employees in the White House for whom a security clearance was pending or has been adjudicated since the inauguration. “Politico” reports that the White House was, quote, startled by Trey Gowdy’s public criticism of their security clearance process and the handling of the Rob Porter case.
Joining us now, Steve Schmidt, Republican strategist, and Josh Earnest, former White House press secretary for President Obama. Both are MSNBC political analysts.
And, Josh, first to you when I hear that the press secretary wants someone else to step up to the microphone in a situation that has been impossible to handle so far, it doesn’t seem like the press secretary is doing anyone a favor with that idea?
JOSH EARNEST, MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST: Well, Lawrence, the truth is that it sounds like the White House chief of staff has not doing the press secretary any favors –
O’DONNELL: Right.
EARNEST: – by giving her information that puts her in a position where she is blatantly lying to the White House press corps to the American public. In some ways, earlier this week, Sarah Sanders had her own Trump inaugural crowd sized moment when she, you know, said something that was a day later contradicted by the FBI director who’s appointed by Donald Trump, who was testifying under oath on live television. Sarah I think is smart to recognize the impact that that moment had on her predecessor and his credibility in his ability to do his job moving forward.
So, you know, this – the political report would suggest that she’s drawing a line in the sand and I think that she’s smart to do that.
O’DONNELL: Steve Schmidt, Sarah Sanders knows two things. She knows John Kelly can’t handle that room, he did a bad job of it. The one time he was in there before. She also knows he doesn’t have any good questions to this and so, she wants him to step up there. That sounds like Sarah Sanders is trying to cause problems for John Kelly.
STEVE SCHMIDT, MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST: Look, what Sarah Sanders is saying is I lied blatantly and professionally for Donald Trump. I don’t lie blatantly and professionally for John Kelly. So, why don’t you John Kelly go up to that podium and lie to the American people for yourself directly? Because this whole story is unraveling.
And what we’re going to find out, Lawrence, here is that this investigation about Rob Porter was substantially done by July with some augmentations in November. And when the report is done, both Josh and I when we served in White Houses, held top-secret SCI clearances and when the FBI investigation was substantially done our clearances were made permanent.
And so, in this case when that investigation was done, his temporary status was not shifted to permanent. Why not? Who decided then to maintain him knowing that he could not get a permanent clearance in a position on a temporary status ad infinitum apparently, with access to the nation’s most closely guarded secrets? And how many more people in and around the president, and in and around the nation’s most closely guarded secrets, how many of those people have had substantially finished FBI fulfilled background investigations but have not been granted permanent clearances and are inappropriately seeing all of this stuff without the ability to pass the background check on a permanent temporary status?
It’s an enormous, enormously reckless handling of our nation’s secrets by this White House.
O’DONNELL: Josh, if a White House press secretary knows that administration member will fail if he or she steps up to that microphone, why would the White House press secretary be recommending that that person who is very likely to fail do that and do that publicly?
EARNEST: Well, you know, Lawrence, when I was the White House press secretary, it was often my responsibility to go and speak publicly and advocate for those elements of the federal government. They could not effectively advocate for themselves and often that – often times, that was agencies that were under fire. Either they were you know they were drawing heavy criticism for something that they had done or failed to do and it was often the responsibility the White House press secretary to sort of step into that line of fire and try to defend them.
This situation, though, Lawrence is very different. You’re talking about somebody who works side-by-side with Sarah Sanders every single day whether it’s the White House chief of staff or the general counsel, the chief counsel in the White House.
You know, when I was the press secretary, most days about thirty minutes before I went in to do my briefing, I’d hear a knock at my door and Denis McDonough who was in the White House chief of staff would stick his head in my office that was generally filled with other White House staffers who were helping me prepare for the briefing that day, and he’d look at me and he’d say, Josh, do you have everything that you need for the briefing?
And so, it was not a situation where he was – obviously not a situation where he was trying to intentionally mislead me – in fact, it is actually one of the chief responsibilities of the White House chief of staff to be in a position to make sure that the White House press secretary has the information that he or she needs to go out and tell the truth and make an effective case in support of the president.
So, in this case, it is pretty clear that John Kelly is doing exactly the opposite of what he’s supposed to be doing and the reason that he’s doing it, Lawrence, and I think this is important is not because he’s looking out for the best interest of the country or the institution of the White House or Donald Trump. He’s trying to cover his own backside here. He has been caught in a grievous act of misjudgment he’s now trying to lie to cover it up and he’s now putting Sarah Sanders in a position where she is lying to protect his lies.
This is a big problem for the White House and certainly I – again, I can understand why Sarah Sanders is fed up with it and doesn’t want any part of it anymore.
O’DONNELL: Steve Schmidt, what would happen if John Kelly or Don McGahn stepped up to that microphone?
SCHMIDT: Well, I think the what we would find out pretty quickly is that they knew that there were credible allegations of domestic abuse going back as far as a year ago, that he was maintained in this position on the temporary status that they knew that he would not receive a permanent clearance and they knew the reason why.
And to Josh’s point, again, a horrendous misjudgment for senior officials in the White House with the responsibilities that they have for the operations of the White House and clearly, this is all unraveling and it’s unraveling on real-time. And the stories don’t make sense.
And again, the Porter piece of this is the tip of the iceberg. How many other people in this West Wing for whatever reason in this cast of characters are unable to get permanent clearances through this process? Is it a half dozen? Is it a dozen? We know for example that Jared Kushner does not have a permanent security clearance yet. It seems to be operating at a permanent basis with this temporary status.
It’s inappropriate. It is a national security scandal of the first order.
O’DONNELL: Steve and Josh, the bipartisan White House veterans we needed to hear from tonight – thank you both very much for joining us. Really appreciate it.
EARNEST: Thanks, Lawrence.
O’DONNELL: American soldiers who were killed in the line of duty – their families get $100,000 tax free, something their families desperately need. What about American teachers killed in the line of duty? They get nothing. That’s next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
LAWRENCE O’DONNELL, MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR: Here is the President reading some of the words that were written for him today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
DONALD TRUMP, UNITED STATES PRESIDENT: No child, no teacher should ever be in danger in an American school. No parent should ever have to fear for their sons and daughters when they kiss them good-bye in the morning.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
O’DONNELL: And, of course, we know that every child and every teacher is in danger in every American school because part of Donald Trump’s definition of making America great is to make sure that our mass murders are the greatest mass murders in the world and have the best equipment in the world. Here’s Florida governor Rick Scott today.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
RICK SCOTT, GOVERNOR, FLORIDA: We know the parents need to wake up in the morning and say I know my children can go to a safe school.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
O’DONNELL: Of course, not one parent in Florida can wake up tomorrow thinking that, thinking their children go to a safe school because Governor Rick Scott has done everything he can to make sure that Florida’s mass murders are the best equipped mass murderers in this country and in the world. Any 18-year-old in Florida can walk right up to the counter and buy an AR-15 assault weapon on the spot and walk out of the gun store and immediately open fire right there in the parking lot if they want to on whoever they want. And Rick Scott is absolutely committed to making sure that 18-year-olds in Florida continue to have that right.
We saw hell in Florida yesterday and saw heroism at the same time. Heroism to which no words could ever do justice. Teachers and students were killed while they were saving the lives of other students. American soldiers killed in action get $100,000 tax free death benefit for their families. American teachers killed in action get absolutely nothing.
More American teachers were killed in action yesterday than American soldiers. The Teachers killed in action yesterday will immediately, in fact, have their names removed from the school payroll now that they have been identified. That’s it. Their families won’t get one more paycheck.
18-year-old high school senior Meadow Polllack was murdered yesterday. Her parents kept calling her cell phone only to hear it ring and ring and ring. 14-year-old Martin Duque was a freshman. A friend said that just before the shooting he and Martin were “just playing around talking about jokes and stuff.” 14-year-old Jamie Guttenburg was a freshman. Her father said on Facebook that he is “trying to figure out how my family gets through this.” Her aunt Abby Eucales said that her family could not ” protect Jamie from the sickness that has gripped our country.”
Joaquin Oliver was a senior. He came to the United States from Venezuela when he was three years old and proudly became a United States citizen just last month. Actually it was last year, January 2017. Gina Montalto was 14 years old. Her mother wrote on Facebook that she was a smart loving, caring and strong girl who brightened any Room she entered. Nicholas Dworet was a star swimmer who just signed with the university of Indianapolis where was going to join their swim team. Carmen Schentrup’s was a National Merit Scholarship Semifinalist who was probably going to have her choice of colleges.. Alaina Petty was 14 years old. Her great aunt said on Facebook there are no hashtags for a moment like this, only sadness.
Luke Hoyer was 15 years old. His parents searched for him yesterday in hospitals and then they finally went to the Law Enforcement Command Center and that’s where they learned that Luke was dead. Peter Wang was a 15 year old freshman in the ROTC Program. His cousin said she wasn’t surprised to learn that Peter Wang was killed when he was holding a door to let other students escape.
Cara Loughran was 14. her family says she was an excellent student. Her Aunt Lindsay Fontana said on Facebook said we are absolutely gutted. While your thoughts are appreciate. I beg you to do something.
This should not have happened to our niece, Cara and it should not happen to other people. Alex Schachter was a 14-year-old freshman. He played trombone in the marching band. Earlier this week he was discussing with his father which classes he would take next semester. Helena Ramsay was 17 years old and a senior. A family member said on Facebook she was brilliant and witty and I’m still wrestling with the idea that she is actually gone.
She would have started college next year. Alyssa Alhadeff was 15 years old. On Facebook her mother said a knife was stabbed in my heart. I wish I could take those bullets for you. Scott Beigel, did that. He took a bullet or maybe several, for the kids. He was a geography teacher and the cross country coach. He rushed students into his classroom to protect them and was murdered in the hallway after they all got inside his classroom. One of the students said he was amazing person and I am alive today because of him. He will be missed.
Chris Hixon, was the athletic director and wrestling coach. And a coach at another school said if you needed something, he was the first one there. Aaron Feis was a graduate of the high school and an assistant football coach and a security guard. Aaron Feis jumped between the shooter and a student and now he’s never coming home to his wife Melissa and his 8-year-old daughter Ariel.
In American High Schools now you look around and wonder who the shooter might be. Who in your high school might show up with an AR-15 and start wiping people out. The shooter who did that yesterday had been expelled from the school last year. Kids at the school talked about him as maybe one of the people who just might show up one day, show up with an assault weapon. But there was absolutely nothing they could do about that suspicion because their Federal and State Governments have done everything that possibly can be done to make sure that those assault weapons are available to mass murderers who want to walk into their schools and start shooting.
And so, on when the gun stores open up in Florida tomorrow, another 18 or 19-year-old aspiring mass murder can just walk in to any of them, buy an AR-15 and go back to his own high school or any other place he wants to go where he thinks he can murder a lot of people. And as long as Rick Scott is the Governor of Florida, mass murders in Florida have exactly the Governor they need to carry out their crazed missions. We’ll be joined next by a man who wants to be the next governor of Florida
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
O’DONNELL: Here’s the governor of Florida today asking the questions Republicans always ask and always refuse to answer.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SCOTT: We’re going to have a real conversation about two things. How do we make sure when a parent is ready to send their child to school that in Florida that parent knows that child is going to be safe? Number two, how do we make sure that individuals with mental illness do not touch a gun? We need to have a real conversation so we have public safety for schools in this state.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
O’DONNELL: We’re joined by now by the Tallahassee Mayor Andrew Gillum. He’s a Democrat. He’s running to be Florida’s next Governor. Mr. Mayor, what’s your reaction to what the governor had to say today?
ANDREW GILLUM, TALLAHASSEE MAYOR: You know Lawrence I have to tell you, these words continue to ring hollow. Not just my ears but the ears of so many of those in Floridians and especially the families that are heart broken right now from Douglas High school and from frankly across the country. They’ve had opportunity after opportunity after opportunity in our state to get it right. And unfortunately the only thing they seem to be able to get right is an executing of the complete and total agenda of the NRA in our state making sure that they do absolutely nothing in the aftermath of these kinds of tragic and preventable events in our state except make it easier for folks to get access to lethal and deadly weapons.
As I have said before, if you want to shoot a weapon, that’s a weapon in my opinion of war, you ought to join the military. But our kids have asked us for protection that they want to go to school to learn. They don’t want to have to go through drills of dodging bullets coming at rapid pace, 90 rounds in 90 seconds. It’s tragic. And it’s time for our leaders in the state of Florida, led by the governor to do something about it.
O’DONNELL: Let’s Isabella Gomez and David Hog. These are two students who were in the high school yesterday and managed to get out alive.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
ISABELLA GOMEZ, FLORIDA SHOOTING SURVIVOR: I feel like he needs to take into consideration all this gun control. There’s no reason that a kid, 19 years old, that’s been investigated already and not even a year ago, being able to purchase an AR-15.
DAVID HOG, FLORIDA SHOOTING SURVIVOR: The state that this country has been allowed to come to, through the work of politicians honestly just saying yeah, thoughts and prayers go out to people. We’re going to impose these ideas.
We don’t need ideas. We need action. We need action from our elected officials. We need action from the civic public because without that, this is going to happen again.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
O’DONNELL: Mayor Gillum, what do you have to say to those students?
GILLUM: I’ll tell you Lawrence the most salient voices we’ve heard in the middle of this tragedy have been from our young people. The student voices have been so strong. They have reminded and, quite frankly, embarrassed a lot of the adults in our state who have done nothing.
These students have asked that they want to be kept safe. They want their elected officials to do exactly what we were elected to do, and that’s to lead, not take temperatures, not to test every policy against the acceptability of the NRA. And it’s simple things, background checks making sure weapons of war aren’t accessible to civilians in our community, making sure that those with mental illness don’t get access to weapons, making sure that domestic abusers don’t get access to weapons because their spouses or partners 16 to 17 percent – 16 times more likely to be killed at the hands of those weapons. This should be that tall of a task.
I thought Sandy Hook was going to be the moment. And here we are after Sandy Hook, after Pulse, after the Fort Lauderdale Airport, after what happened in Las Vegas and now after what happened in Parkland, we’re still sending thoughts and prayers. Well you know what this moment requires more than thoughts and prayers. It requires real action. And that’s what people are asking for from their governor, from the legislature and from their elected officials in Washington.
O’DONNELL: Tallahassee Mayor Andrew Gillum thank you for joining us with this very difficult subject, really appreciate it.
GILLUM: thank you.
O’DONNELL: Coming up, Michael Wolff’s book, Fire and Fury probably added hours of questions that the Special Prosecutor had for Steve Bannon. A new book might be doing the same thing. A new book about Whitehouse Chief of Staff Reince Priebus will probably be the next book that the Special Prosecutor for leads in their investigation. The author of that book will join us.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
O’DONNELL: The Fire of the day, according to a former Bush Whitehouse Chief of staff, that seemed to be the only thing that Reince Priebus was worried about when he was the Trump Whitehouse Chief of Staff. Josh Bolton says when he spoke to Reince Priebus about the job Priebus seemed neither focused on organizing his Whitehouse staff nor in control of his own life. He was just responding to the fire of the day.
That quote is in a new edition of Chris Whipple’s book The Gate Keeper Keepers about Whitehouse Chiefs of Staff. It’s a book that Robert Mueller is no doubt studying tonight because it includes the six month run of Reince Priebus as the Whitehouse Chief of Staff. one fire of the day, and that was the day that Donald Trump attacked and humiliated his Attorney General Jeff Sessions to the point that Jeff Sessions decided to quit. In the book Priebus tells the story this way. Don McGahn came in my office pretty hot, red and out of breath and said, we’ve got a problem. I responded what?
And He said, well, we just got a Special Counsel and Attorney General Jeff Sessions just resigned. I said what? What the hell are you talking about. Priebus bolted down the stairway to the West Wing parking lot. He found Sessions in the backseat of a black sedan with the engine running.
I knocked on the door of the car and Jeff was sitting there Priebus said. And I just jumped in and shut the door. And I said Jeff what’s going on. And then he told what was going on. he was going to resign. I said you can’t resign. It’s not possible.
we’re going to talk about this right now. Jeff Sessions delivered a letter of resignation to the President. But Reince Priebus said he talked Donald Trump out of accepting the Attorney General’s resignation letter. But that didn’t stop the President for continuing to push for Jeff Sessions being fired.
In the book Reince Priebus says take everything you heard and multiply it by 50. That’s what it’s like inside the Trump Whitehouse. The author of the book Chris Whipple will join us next with more of what he learned from Reince Priebus about the chaos inside the Trump Whitehouse.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Do you stand by Jeff Sessions as your attorney general?
TRUMP: Yes, I do.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
O’DONNELL: Joining us now Chris Whipple. He’s the author of the Gate Keepers. How the Whitehouse Chief of Staff defined every Presidency. Soon to be released in paperback with a new chapter about the Trump Administration. And Chris I’m not sure about the sub title when it comes to the Whitehouse. Is the white house chiefs of staff, we’ve had two, are they defining the Trump presidency
CHRIS WHIPPLE, AUTHOR: Well I mean I have to concede that. We’ve argued about this. I mean Donald Trump is one of a kind. And he may be the only person defines his presidency. It’s been obviously the most dysfunctional Whitehouse in modern history.
And yet what I learned in reporting this chapter in the paper back, it’s was much wilder roller coaster ride than of us realized. The first thing Reince Priebus told me when we sat down to talk off the record and then I ultimately got it on the record, was take everything you know and multiply it by 50.
Now he would hasten to add that even John Kelly says it’s the toughest job he ever had. But imagine that for every dysfunctional half baked thing Donald Trump tried to do like the executive order on immigration. That there were 10 crazier things that Reince Priebus claims stopped.
O’DONNELL: Yes. That’s actually what I’ve expecting all along from the Trump administration is that people when get out of it they’re going to be telling us all – much worse things that could have happened that they’ve stopped, including quite possibly a nuclear exchange with North Korea.
WHIPPLE: Well you know that’s the thing. It’s I mean at the end of the day it does get lame to keep hearing over and over again, you wouldn’t believe the blank you know I stopped from happening. But it is true, if you belief Priebus That there were things Trump wanted to do out of the gate. They had like 100 executive orders ready to go, a lot of them more draconian than the one they attempted on immigration. Trump wanted to a 25 percent tariff on cars, a 25 percent tariff on steel. He wanted scrap NAFTA immediately, Reince Priebus had to sit down with him and explain there were a lot of farmers in these swing states who would be killed by that. That you had to renegotiate. So it’s a really granular inside look at the wildest six months in presidential history.
O’DONNELL: So Donald Trump wanted to increase the cost – the price of a new car by 25 percent? He didn’t understand that it’s not a foreign country that pays that. It’s the American automobile buyer that pays that. I want to go to the material about Jeff Sessions because this has to be the stuff that the Special Prosecutor will be very interested in because here’s a President trying to fire his Attorney General and trying to fire him because he’s not protecting him. And you have material in there that we have never learned before about Priebus having to chase the attorney general out into the driveway to hold onto him.
WHIPPLE: it’s a wild story that’s never been reported before. It was the 17th of May, eight days after Comey had been fired and the day Rosenstein appointed a special counsel and Jeff Sessions was in the Oval Office. This much was reported that Trump insulted him, called him an idiot, dressed him down. What wasn’t reported was Sessions actually said I’m resigning and stormed out and ran down to the West Wing parking lot.
Priebus got wind of it, raced down the stairs, found him in the car with the engine running, opened the door, jumped in, told Sessions you can’t resign. This can’t happen. Dragged him back to the office in the West Wing. Bannon came in, Steve Bannon and Mike Pence came in and they managed to talk him out of resigning right then and there. Of course, he did deliver a letter offering his resignation which Trump didn’t accept.
O’DONNELL: And, of course, the Special Prosecutor is going to want to go over every word of that scene. Chris Whipple gets tonight’s Last Word. Thank you very much for joining us.
WHIPPLE: Thanks for having me.
O’DONNELL: And next on the 11th Hour Today’s immigration debate in the United States Senate.

Copyright 2018 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.>

