Watch Videos
Show: ALL IN with CHRIS HAYESDate: February 27, 2018Guest: Jake Sullivan, Mieke Eoyang, Joaquin Castro, Ted Lieu, Shermichael Singleton, Michelle Goldberg, Chris Lu

###START
Name: CHRIS MATTHEWS ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And that`s HARDBALL for now, thanks for being with us. “ALL IN” with Chris Hayes starts right now.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: CHRIS HAYES ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Tonight on ALL IN.
Name: MICHAEL ROGERS ( DIRECTOR, NSA) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I`ve never been given any specific direction to take additional steps outside my authority.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  NBC reports substantial evidence election systems compromised here in seven U.S. states by the Russians in 2016 as the national security director reveals Trump has not directed him to protect us in 2018.
Name: CLAIRE MCCASKILL  ( MISSOURI) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The notion that you have not been given this mission to stop this from happening this year is outrageous.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Then.
Name: RAJ SHAH ( PRINCIPAL DEPUTY PRESS SECRETARY, WHITE HOUSE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  asianindian ; Dialogue:  There was no collusion, there`s no obstructions, there`s going to be no finding of wrongdoing.
Name: SARAH HUCKABEE SANDERS ( PRESS SECRETARY, WHITE HOUSE) ; Gender: N.A ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  There is no collusion.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  There has been no collusion here.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  As the White House keeps insisting on no collusion.
Name: DONALD TRUMP ( PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Where`s Hope? Hope, come here, Hope. Come here, Hope. Get up here, Hope. Hope hicks.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The President`s long-time aide stonewalls on the Hill.
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Come on up here, Hope. Come, come, come, she`s shy.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Plus the Trump tax cut scoreboard. Who is winning? And Jared Kushner loses his top secret intelligence access.
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Jared has done an outstanding job. I think he`s been treated very unfairly.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  When ALL IN starts now.
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  He`s a high-quality person.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Good evening from New York, I`m Chris Hayes. Whatever Robert Mueller does or does not find about Donald Trump`s interactions with Russia in the last campaign, here`s what we know for certain right now. According to U.S. intelligence agencies Russia interfered in the 2016 Presidential Election with a clear preference for Donald Trump. Also, according to U.S. intelligence agencies, Russia is already working to interfere in the next round of U.S. elections which take place just eight months from now. And early voting for the primaries is already open in some states. But despite that on-going very real threat to our electoral integrity, the Head of the National Security Agency, that would be Admiral Mike Rogers, testified to Congress today the President has not directed him to do a single thing to disrupt Russian election hacking operations where they originate.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: JACK REED  ( RHODE ISLAND) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So you would need basically to be directed by the president through the Secretary of Defense.
Name: ROGERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, sir, as I mentioned that in my statement.
Name: REED ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Have you been directed to do so given the strategic threat that faces the united states and the significant consequences you recognize already.
Name: ROGERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, I have not. There are some things I have the authority and I am acting within that authority now, not waiting.
Name: REED ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But essentially we have not taken on the Russians yet?
Name: ROGERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s probably fair to say that we have not opted to engage in some of the same behaviors that we are seeing.
Name: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL  ( CONNECTICUT) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Would you agree with me that the Russians have been in no way deterred from the –
Name: ROGERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, sir, I think that`s true.
Name: BLUMENTHAL ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They`re doing it with impunity, they could care less what we think, they`re continuing to attack us?
Name: ROGERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, sir. I believe that President Putin has come to the conclusion there`s little price to pay here –
Name: ELIZABETH WARREN  ( MASSACHUSETTS) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Bingo.
Name: ROGERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  – and therefore, I can continue this activity. Everything both as a Director of NSA and what I see in the cyber command side leads me to believe that if we don`t change the dynamic here, this is going to continue and 2016 won`t be viewed as isolated. In fairness, you can`t say nothing`s been done but my point would be it hasn`t been enough.
Name: WARREN ; Gender: male ; Race:  african,caucasian ; Dialogue:  It hasn`t been enough?
Name: ROGERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Clearly what we`ve done hasn`t been enough.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Rogers` comments came shortly before NBC News broke the story U.S. intelligence community has substantial evidence that state Web sites where voter registration systems in seven different states were compromised by Russian-backed covert activities prior to the 2016 election including penetration of actually voter registration databases. Even before that news broke, Democrats on that Senate Armed Services Committee expressed outrage that Rogers had not been directed to act.
Name: MCCASKILL ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You know, the notion that this country came after the essence of what we are, the character and value of our country is all about the Democracy. The notion they came after us brazenly and that nobody can sit in that chair and say we got this, you guys can do this. You give our America`s military a mission and nobody is better. The notion that you have not been given this mission to stop this from happening this year is outrageous. It is outrageous.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  At the White House, Sarah Sanders brushed off those concerned and blamed Barack Obama.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Admiral Rogers is the one who has the agency that could go and confront Russian intrusion at the source and he hasn`t been given the authority. In fact, he says that the Russians haven`t paid a sufficient price to make them change their behavior. He`s the one with the power, with the means to do it. All he needs is a presidential directive the authority from the President.
Name: SANDERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I disagree with the premise of your question. It`s not just one individual. It`s looking at a number of different ways.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  He`s in charge of cyber command. Why not give him the authority?
Name: SANDERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Nobody is denying him the authority. We`re looking at a number of different ways that we can put pressure. Look, this President as a told you last week has been much tougher on Russia than his predecessor. Let`s not forget this happened under Obama, it didn`t happen under President Trump. If you want to blame somebody on past problems, look at Obama administration.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Joining me now is Jake Sullivan who is Deputy Assistant to President Obama and National Security Adviser for Vice President Biden and Mieke Eoyang, a former Staffer in both the House Intelligence and House Armed Service Committees. Jake, let me start with you. Your reaction to Admiral Rogers` testimony today?
Name: JAKE SULLIVAN ( DEPUTY ASSISTANT TO PRESIDENT OBAMA) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, to really understand Admiral Rogers testimony, you have to put it in context. Every single leader of our intelligence community including those appointed by President Trump himself have said that Russia poses a threat to the 2018 election and the future elections, as well. And yet, Christopher Wray, the Director of the FBI testified he`s been given no direction from the President to do anything to stop Russia. The President hasn`t levied a single sanction on Russia in connection with election meddling.
And then today, Admiral Rogers says that Russia is acting basically with impunity and that he hasn`t been given any direction or any authority to go after these Russian threats at the source. And so the only conclusion one can draw is that the President is derelicting his duty. He took an oath to defend our democracy, our Constitution. He`s not doing it and it`s hard to think of a time in American history when a president has faced such a clear threat and chosen to do absolutely nothing about it. It just boggles the mind.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Mieke, is there a good faith policy rationale for this set of inactions that this is essentially some kind of a restraint that`s necessary given the deteriorating relationship between the U.S. and Russia?
Name: MIEKE EOYANG ( FORMER STAFFER, HOUSE ARMED SERVICE COMMITTEES) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, I don`t think so, especially when it comes to Admiral Rogers. Like, when you think about who these actors were in the election, these two Russian hacking it units Cozy Bear and Fancy Bear that were essentially electronic burglars that broke into John Podesta`s e-mails, that`s a crime. And NSA is the agency that you would expect to start going after other intelligence services like this that he hasn`t been given the authority. That authority would need to come from the President, and the President hasn`t asked him to act in this manner is really unconscionable.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Jake, you worked at the State Department under then-Secretary Clinton and I know that Russia occupied a lot of your concern at that time that was during the elections. It`s part of the reason that Vladimir Putin does not like Hillary Clinton because of what she had to say about that round of elections. What is your sense of what could be done to create deterrents here?
Name: SULLIVAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I think there`s at least three lines of effort that need to be undertaken. The first is that we need to be levying sanctions against them for the activity they`ve already conducted because that raises the costs and that it shows they actually have to pay a price. And what Admiral Rogers said today is they`re just not feeling that cost right now. Secondly, we need to harden our defenses. We need to make sure that our election systems and as you noted at the top of the program, some of those have already been penetrated are impregnable, cannot be broken into by the Russians. And then third, we need to give the NSA and cyber come the outfits that Admiral Rogers sits on the top of the authority they need to be able to effectively push back against these Russian-backed cyber hackers when they try to mount the next attack. So we`ve got to play defense, we have to raise the costs, and we have to be clear with Vladimir Putin that he is going to pay a price if he tries to do this again.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Mieke, as a veteran of the Hill, did you think that Rogers was essentially kind of blowing the whistle today? It struck me as fairly remarkable language for someone who is a member of the administration to use in that context.
Name: EOYANG ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s right. And what you see here is senior military officer who is in the last stage of his career. He has nothing left to lose. There are no more jobs for him saying I have – I am deeply concerned that we are not doing enough, that we are under attack and we are not stopping it. It`s really – you see this very rarely. The last time we saw this was when General Shinseki prior to the Iraq war was trying to sound the alarm about what a terrible undertaking it was going to be and how much it would cost us as a nation. We see here today Admiral Rogers blowing the whistle very loudly.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So that`s interesting. You compare it to Shinseki. He knew what he was doing there and was using his words intentionally?
Name: EOYANG ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, I think that`s right. I think Admiral Rogers is being very clear that the President is not giving him the authority that he needs. And the question is, has he presented plans to the President to do anything about this and the president is rejecting those options.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You know, Jake, there`s obviously – there`s this investigation of the President`s campaign and what it may or may not have done with regards to Russia collaboration, collusion, et cetera. What do you make of this inability to act against the context of what we know now about what happened in the election?
Name: SULLIVAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Look, I mean, I said in earlier answer that it boggles the mind. But really what it comes down to is President Trump is choosing, actively choosing not to do anything about this. And I think you can only draw one of a couple conclusions. One is that he`s hoping it helps him and Republicans in the future so he`s happy to have the Russians keep doing this. Another is that the Russians have something on him so he feels he can`t act against them. And another is that he`s scared or wimpy or weak when it comes to the possibility that he`s going to make Vladimir Putin mad.
None of them reflect particularly well on the President. But even just trying to come up with an alternative rationale explanation other that be one of those is very difficult given what we heard from Admiral Rogers today. I mean, Mieke is so right. To have a uniformed military officer be as direct and as blunt about the fact that he feels not enough is being done right now, that is a blinking flashing red light that we saw today on the Hill and it suggests that something is very wrong in the White House right now.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s interesting you both say that because I was really blown back by the tone of that testimony today. It was like – it was like in a courtroom when someone calls a witness they think is going to be friendly and then they`re not all of a sudden. And I`m gratified to hear that you have the same interpretation because I was scratching my head if I was misinterpreting what I was seeing. Jake Sullivan and Mieke Eoyang, thank you, both for being with me.
Name: EOYANG ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  While Mike Rogers was warning Congress about the President`s failure to adequately counter the Russian election interference, Donald Trump`s long-time aide, Hope Hicks, the White House Communications Director, appeared on Capitol Hill for a closed-door interview with the House Intelligence Committee. It lasted more than nine hours, a full day affair. Now, Hicks had reportedly already been interviewed by Special Counsel Robert Mueller who has again according to reporting zeroed in on a misleading statement, wildly misleading statement drafted on Air Force One which was reportedly dictated by the President to Hope Hicks. And that was about that infamous 2016 Trump Tower meeting involving members of the Trump campaign and Russians promising dirt on Hillary Clinton by way of the Russian government.
Now, this morning, before Hicks` testimony, the President unleashed a series of tweets quoting various pundits who questioned the Trump Russia collusion. I think it was on a DVR delay today so it wasn`t live tweeting. It culminated in just a context list all-caps tweet simply read all caps witch hunt. On Trump T.V., White House Deputy Press Secretary Raj Shah sent a similar message when asked about Hick`s testimony.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I won`t comment on her interactions with the committee. I will say that the White House has been cooperating with both the Special Counsel and the House Intelligence Committee`s inquiries. We`re being fully cooperative because you know, as a White House, the President said repeatedly, there was no collusion, there`s no obstruction, there`s going to be no finding of wrongdoing.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  With me now Democratic Representative Joaquin Castro of Texas, a Member of the House Intelligence Committee which held the interview today with Hope Hicks. Is Raj Shah being truthful when he says they`re cooperating fully?
Name: JOAQUIN CASTRO  ( HOUSE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  No, that`s not the truth at all. In fact, Hope Hicks came to the Congress today to the Intelligence Committee and really stonewalled, didn`t want to answer any questions about her time in the White House. And that`s the period of time where we have the most questions for her. It`s interesting because the White House has allowed some of the witnesses who worked there to testify almost freely and others they`ve kept them bottled up including Hope Hicks and Steve Bannon. And they`re basically relying on this idea that the Republican-led committee is not going to subpoena the other witnesses besides Steve Bannon, not going to compel them or try to hold them in contempt or otherwise get them to answer the questions that we`re asking.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Was she in there with an attorney today?
Name: CASTRO ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, she had a few attorneys with her.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And so, what is it like when you ask a question that she deems or her attorney deemed out of bounds? What happens?
Name: CASTRO ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The answers, you know, that they would take it under advisement or they weren`t going to answer the question which I thought on some level was also incredibly arrogant to say we`re just not going to answer. We asked well, why won`t you answer? We`re not going to answer.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Wait, again, I`m confused here. They`re – look, it seems that her conversations with the President in the White House are actually things that plausibly you can make an executive privilege argument to cover.
Name: CASTRO ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Sure.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But that just would come from the White House, right? The White House would say we are invoking executive privilege formally. You can`t ask her about these things. It was – it was in the process of the official duties. They haven`t done that?
Name: CASTRO ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, that`s right. We believe that they`ve not formally said that they`re invoking executive privilege. That`s one thing. There`s also a debate over what`s covered within executive privilege. But the interesting thing today is that she would not talk about anything having to do with her time at the White House including any conversation with anyone even if they weren`t associated with the White House which was an extraordinarily broad interpretation of executive privilege. That basically covered a conversation with anybody.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So Bannon did something similar. He was on the phone back to the White House. He came back again. There was an on the spot subpoena. There`s a question what happens to him. Are your colleagues on the Republican side, have they offered any interest in a subpoena or a contempt citation here?
Name: CASTRO ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, none at all. In fact, it`s my understanding from the majority that they`re not going to compel her testimony as far as we can tell. Steve Bannon is in a different case because he`s out of favor. He`s basically a man with no country. And he`s riled up some of the Republicans on this committee anyway. Breitbart is probably gone after some of them so they`re not happy with him for that.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I`m sorry. I just find this whole thing bizarre. Like, the witnesses has come in and operating this nebulous space, you ask questions, some they want to answer, some they don`t. There`s no like – it never gets adjudicated in any way. It just seems it`s essentially a kind of buffet. They choose what they want and what they don`t.
Name: CASTRO ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, that`s essentially what it`s become. They`re gaming the system. They`re counting on this committee, this Republican-led committee protecting them from having to answer these questions. And really, Chris, they probably will. They probably won`t make these witnesses answer these very important questions. So that is in a sense an obstruction of justice on its own.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Are you learning new things anymore?
Name: CASTRO ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Sure. The witnesses you know, as they testify for hours there are new things and useful things that come out. But there are still more witnesses that we need to talk to. There are witnesses that we have spoken with that need to come in again and then equally as important, is that there`s a lot of information we`ve gotten that we need to go verify and track down other leads for. And that has not been done very much at all.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  All right, Representative Joaquin Castro, thanks for your time tonight.
Name: CASTRO ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Next, Jared Kushner loses his access to top-secret intelligence. As new reporting emerges, foreign officials had pegged him as a weak spot to manipulate in the Trump administration. Imagine that. Those breaking stories in two minutes.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Jared Kushner, the President`s son-in-law, and Senior Adviser is in trouble tonight. The Washington Post reporting that officials from the United Arab Emirates, China, Israel, and Mexico all privately discussed ways to manipulate Kushner by taking advantage of his complex business arrangements, financial difficulties and lack of foreign policy experience. The Post also reporting that Kushner did not officially report some of his contacts with foreign officials or coordinate those contacts through the National Security Council which is what protocol demands and that Kushner`s contacts with certain foreign government officials are a reason he has been unable to obtain a permanent security clearance.
And because of his lack of permanent security clearance, his inability to obtain it, Jared Kushner also just lost his access to highly classified information. He along with other White House staffers operating with interim security clearances were told in a memo Friday they will no longer have access to highly classified information requiring the highest level of clearance. ABC News spotted Jared Kushner on Capitol Hill today, he ignored questions from reporters about both those reports. Kushner had been on the Hill to talk about prison reform.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Joining me now is Congressman Ted Lieu, Democrat from California, Member of the House Judiciary Committee. First, you`re reaction to the reporting from the Washington Post that foreign governments had identified Kushner as manipulatable due to his complex financial arrangements.
Name: TED LIEU  ( HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you for your question, Chris. If the Washington Post story is accurate, Jared Kushner needs to resign. His mounting business debts, his complex financial arrangements and the lies he`s told on his previous SF-86 security clearance forms make him a national security liability. We cannot have a Senior White House Adviser that can be manipulated and leveraged by foreign powers that`s completely unacceptable.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What do you think of him losing his clearance today 14 months after he started?
Name: LIEU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It is a good first step but also means he can no longer do his job. The President has charged him with getting a middle peace – Middle East peace plan between Israel and Palestinians. He can`t do that if he doesn`t have access to the highest levels of intelligence about what these positions are of these various entities involved. And the Israelis and Palestinians won`t be able to trust Jared Kushner if they know that our own government can`t trust him fully.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Trey Gowdy in the House Government Oversight Committee has initiated what he says an investigation into the clearance issue of 100 White House staffers working on temporary security clearance a year after the election, as far as we can tell which is just remarkable. Do you want to see Congressional Oversight specifically and hearings about Jared Kushner and how this process worked?
Name: LIEU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Absolutely. I have already introduced a bill called a Clearances Act that would require the White House to provide to Congress everyone on interim security clearance and if it`s over a year to explain why it`s been over a year. And this is one of the examples of why we have nepotism laws and why we don`t want nepotism. You can`t have the President sticking people into the White House because of blood and not because of qualifications.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Are you concerned about that there are national security vulnerabilities that may have already been exploited?
Name: LIEU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Absolutely. And you know, I`ve been asking for a long time, why does Jared Kushner still have a security clearance. Now I get to ask why does he have a downgraded clearance? But there`s other people there such as Ivanka, why should she have a security clearance? She has no qualifications to be a senior White House adviser. She has no foreign policy experience. Why was she communicating with the President of South Korea on some important North Korean issues? I have into understanding to why that is happening other than because of nepotism.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You know, one thing that jumped out of me is the idea that Kushner, I mean, this is someone who has had to refile parts of his SF-86, he`s had to disclose meetings that were previously undisclosed. He didn`t talk about the meeting with Kislyak originally, the meeting with Russian banker, that he is still making appointments or meetings with foreign officials and not running it through NSE after being warned about this. How do you understand that behavior?
Name: LIEU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  According to The Washington Post, some of these foreign countries are specifically trying to talk to Kushner without going through other channels because they know that Kushner can be manipulated. I also wrote a letter that over a dozen members of Congress signed over two months ago that asked Jared Kushner a very simple question. It was just a yes or no question. Did he have any talks with foreign nationals from countries such as China or UAE? He still refuses to answer that very simple question. And now we probably know why that is.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Wait, you wrote him a letter two months ago and they did not – they just didn`t answer?
Name: LIEU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We also wrote a follow-up letter. They refused to answer a simple yes or no. Has he talked to anyone about 666 Fifth Avenue, with these foreign nationals from Saudi Arabia, China, and other countries?
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  666 Fifth Avenue, of course, is the Kushner family businesses crown jewel enterprise which is massively leverage for which they need cash infusions. It`s been identified as a possible sort of leverage point for those who should manipulate Kushner. I want to be clear here. You wrote the letter, did they ignore it or did they acknowledge receipt and tell you they`re not answering?
Name: LIEU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They have acknowledged receipt. They definitely have the first letter plus the follow-up letter. They just won`t answer that question. And that leads me to believe that Jared Kushner is hiding something, that he likely did have conversations with foreign nationals about 666 Fifth Avenue.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, that seems like a question you should get an answer to. Congressman Ted Lieu, thanks for joining us.
Name: LIEU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Still ahead, the backlash against the NRA continues not just from politicians crucially. Why companies seem to be more likely to cut ties than your elected leaders coming up.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  As tax cuts are in the books, companies start sharing the wealth dishing out bonuses.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Corporate America takes the chance to pay out hundreds of millions in tax-related bonuses with AT&T and Comcast handing out $1,000 to a slew of employees citing the tax deal.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Two U.S. airlines have joined banks in dishing out $1,000 bonuses in the wake of the tax bill.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  More than three million folks have already gotten these $1,00 bonuses plus.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Business news as you might recall was all over the bonuses that were announced by corporate America in the wake of Donald Trump the Republicans tax cut which passed in December. And perhaps not surprisingly, the RNC and the White House got in on the action, too. They would send out press releases touting all the money Americans would be getting back in their paychecks. But there hasn`t been as much celebrating about the news of the huge corporate winds falls. Like just to choose one example the $29 billion that Warren Buffett says his company Berkshire Hathaway gained thanks to the new tax law. Money that Buffet openly stated didn`t come from anything we accomplished. As Gene Sperling of the Atlantic points out, that one $29 billion “gift” to a single investment firm is enough to give a $1,000 bonus to 29 million workers and that`s every worker in the states of Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Florida combined. That`s just one company`s windfall, OK?
So just to get a general sense, here`s where the scoreboard for the tax bill currently stands. Total amount that`s gone to American work, in other words, the form of bonuses and wage increases announced since the Trump tax cut is $5.2 billion which is not nothing. That`s a lot of money. But the total amount that has gone to shareholders, the owners, the bosses, thanks to stock buybacks where corporations take the money they saved due to the cuts, use it to inflate stock prices so that shareholders and corporations themselves get richer, that currently totals $178 billion or just doing the math in my head here, not reading off the teleprompter, more than 34 times what workers have gotten. This is one place where the President has kept his promise. You`ll remember what Donald Trump said, the week after the election to diners at a New York City restaurant that charges $36 for a burger.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Hi Mr. President Elect!
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We`ll get your taxes down. Don`t worry.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you, we`ll get your taxes down. Don`t worry. Maybe the one time Donald Trump has proved to be a man of his word.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Georgia Republicans are now lashing out at one of the state`s most important companies, Delta Air Lines, after the company announced it would end a travel discount for members of the National Rifle Association. The state`s GOP is threatening to punish the airline. Lieutenant Govern Casey Cagle tweeting out on Monday, quote, “I will kill any tax legislation that benefits Delta unless the company changes its position and fully reinstates its relationship with NRA. Corporations cannot attack conservatives and expect us not to fight back.”
Leaders the of the state senate said they would indeed block the tax bill in question, a $50 million jet fuel sales exemption, which maybe is not good policy anyway.
But Georgia Republicans might have accomplished something very different, pointing out the success of the #boycott NRA movement. Companies from cyber security venues to car rentals to moving vans to hearing aids have ended discount programs and affiliations with the gun group.
And there could be more on the way. Wall Street Journal reporting global investment firm Blackstone Group, which has more than $400 billion with assets under management this weekend, asked outside fund managers about stakes in companies that make or sell guns.
Michelle Goldberg is a columnist at The New York Times.
When you look at that list of companies and you think about the political power of the NRA, are you surprised?
Name: MICHELLE GOLDBERG ( THE NEW YORK TIMES) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think what`s interesting is that for most of our adult lives, even if the NRA`s position was the majority position, the intensity gap between supporters of the NRA and people who wanted more gun control was disproportionate that you sort of had this broad majority of people who wanted – who disagreed with the NRA, but who weren`t particularly motivated to take it on. And that has switched almost overnight I think as a result both of the Parkland shootings, but also as a result of this pouring into politics of all of these previously not super politically engaged suburban white women who are – we`re making the political landscape all over the place and are hyper mobilized and, you know, furious about the fact that their kids have to go to active shooter drills in elementary school.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s a great point. So, you know, I remember having you here. And you were down in Georgia 6th on the Ossoff special election. There`s some special elections tonight, state reps. In fact, I think Democrats picked up a Republican district in New Hampshire, if I`m not mistaken.
What you`re saying is that same core of what is sort of the base.
Name: GOLDBERG ; Gender: female ; Race:  latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right, and that`s happening all over the place. There`s this great piece in Democracy Journal about exactly this phenomenon. I mean, and it`s just happening everywhere. These women who maybe before kind of voted in presidential elections but didn`t know what congressional district they were in are just now hyper involved. And those are the kind of people I think that are suddenly turning – they are suddenly making it safe for Democrats to take on the NRA and are suddenly making it – you know, are suddenly kind of stigmatizing the NRA in a way that it didn`t used to – in a way that people used to really cower before the political power of the NRA.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You know, it`s funny, it`s a great point. I have not thought of it, but you`re right, that that sort of vin diagram overlap of who that profile of those people working the phones and who is going to be angry about this issue.
The politics of it are also changing, right. So, the brands are running away. But brands get spooked very easily. This is Mark Caputo down in Florida is a great reporter on Florida politics, says slowly but not in significant numbers for now Florida Republicans moving toward an assault weapons ban. There is actual movement happening there in Florida even though they voted down the bill yesterday.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right. And some of that I think is probably just sincere, you know, kind of sincere reaction to the horror of this shooting and is maybe not even about political calculations, because Ithink they`re doing something kind of brave and risky and it probably won`t have a lot of immediate upside assuming that they – to do more than pay lip service to further restrictions.
But what`s changing again, I think is that people were so intimidated by the gun lobby that, you know, particularly red state Democrats didn`t want anything to do with gun control. There was a sense that it was really politically fatal. And now you see just on Twitter you see politicians boasting about their F ratings from the NRA. And you see there`s a real constituency for people who – there`s a lot of Democrats I think who feel about the NRA roughlyhow a lot of Republicans think about Planned Parenthood, right, that`s it`s…
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  In fact, that`s been the comparison. I mean, I see Republicans making that comparison all the time about, you know, you tolerate Planned Parenthood, that that`s their stand-in on the other side.
Name: GOLDBERG ; Gender: female ; Race:  latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right but Planned Parenthood – you know, first of all, I would argue thatwhatever these are not equivalents. But also Planned Parenthood doesn`t have like a lot of kind of corporate affiliates.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, no, and they also – right. And one of the things you see with Planned Parenthood, and now with the NRA, and you`re seeing in this sort of fight over Delta is – and I saw this in the NFL issue, there`s no neutral ground in the cultural war. Like you can`t be out there and be an airline or an insurance company, you are going to have to pick sides eventually on something.
Name: GOLDBERG ; Gender: female ; Race:  latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  And one of the things that`s so interesting is that the power of I hate to say the power of the consumer, but there`s a lot of people in this country who are politically very disempowered because of the structures of our institutions that you know, kind of vastly privileged rural white people who tend to be the populations that are gun owning, right, those people just have so much more voting power.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Disproportionate political power.
Name: GOLDBERG ; Gender: female ; Race:  latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  They have so much more representation than the rest of us. But that`s not true when it comes to consumers where suddenly, you know, kind of people on large concentrations of educated people on the coasts are not figures of contempt and irrelevance.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right, Hertz has to sell them cars. I mean, that`s exactly right, that the difference between the relatively levels of empowerment of those constituencies in these different sphere has really been clear in this last week.
Michelle Goldberg, thanks for joining me.
Ahead, the Trump organization says it is following through on a promise, donating profits made by foreign officials at Trump hotels, just don`t ask how much or who it`s from or how they`re doing it, or really just any details about it whatsoever.
And the president finds himself on the side of Archie Bunker literally in tonight`s Thing One, Thing Two next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thing One tonight, President Trump spoke to governors at the White House yesterday arguing the answer to school shootings is to have more guns including the NRA-backed solution in quotes of arming teachers to, quote, “harden schools.” But oddly enough, just down the hall at the very same time, the first lady was addressing the governor spouses and seemed to have a very different message.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MELANIA TRUMP ( FIRST LADY) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I have been heartened to see children across this country using their voices to speak out and try to create change. They`re our future. And they deserve a voice.
(END VIDE OCLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Was the first lady trying to send a message to her husband down the hall saying the students deserve a voice and she`s heartened seeing them speaking up to create change in the change most of them want is exactly the opposite of one that Donald Trump is push.
One of the most outspoken students from Parkland, Sarah Chadwick, who tweeted “Donald, if you`re only going to listen to one thing I say, I`m begging it to be this: arming teachers is an idiotic idea.”
So far it doesn`t appear President Trump is listening to those students. Instead, he might be taking cues from what he`s watching during executive time, and not only Trump TV, perhaps there was a TV classic on that DVR. And that`s Thing Two in 60 seconds.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  In the wake of Florida`s school shooting, the ideas coming from President Trump are the same ones coming from the NRA: more guns, including armed teachers and personnel. Trump says it would be, quote, instantly shooting. But the more guns argument is nothing new. In fact, it was made over 40 years ago in an episode of All in the Family. Archie Bunker appeared on the local news to deliver a rebuttal to gun control that sounded an awful like the Trump NRA talking points today, only it was a punch line back then.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: CARROLL O`CONNOR ( ACTOR) ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  I want to talk about another thing that`s on everybody`s mind today and that`s your stickups and your skyjackings which if that was up to me, I could end the skyjackings tomorrow.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You could?
Name: O`CONNOR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  All you got to do is arm all your passengers. You got no more superiority there and you ain`t going to dare to pull out no rod. Then your airlines, then they wouldn`t have to say to passengers on the ground no more. They just pass out the pistols at the beginning of the trip and pick them up again at the end.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: SHERI DILLON ( ATTORNEY) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  President-elect Trump has decided, and we are announcing today, that he is going to voluntarily donate all profits from foreign government payments made to his hotels to the United States treasury.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It was one of the big announcements made by the Trump transition team at a news conference that memorably featured a table full of documents, which we think were probably just empty sheets of paper, a prop to show you just how transparent they were being. Trump`s lawyer stood up and announced that even though they didn`t think it was required by law, out of an abundance of caution, the Trump organization would voluntarily donate profits it received from foreign nationals at its hotels to the U.S. government treasury.
Now, think for a moment what it would actually take to accomplish that logistically at all the Trump hotels and properties. Just for one example, would every patron of every Trump hotel bar have to present a passport before they ordered a drink just to make sure the money went back to the U.S. government? It would be a massive undertaking, which explains why there weren`t signs it was actually happening when the owner of the Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas was asked about it back in March, he said, quote, “I don`t know anything about that.”
But now, get this, the Trump organization said they did. They did do it, that they`ve been doing it all along and just take their word for it.
The Trump organization says it donated those foreign profits to the U.S. Treasury last Thursday. And when The Washington Post asked for more details, how much was donated, which Trump properties were included in this accounting, which foreign entities had paid money, Amanda Miller, a Trump organization spokeswoman wrote in an email we have nothing further to share at this time.
So kudos I guess for this stunning bit of transparency? And that is just one of the many questionable money dealings of this administration. The story of Ben Carson`s $31,000 table – table next.
(COMMERICAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  When running for president, Ben Carson often criticized wasteful government spending at one point telling Marketplace that all the spending we`re doing, in my opinion, is not legitimate spending in terms of what we actually need to run the government. I don`t think it`s anywhere near what we`re talking about now.
Now that he`s actually in government, he doesn`t seem to mind so much. Today we learned the department of housing and urban development, headed by Ben Carson, spent $31,000 on a new dining room set for Secretary Carson`s office, even as the agency`s budget calls for $8.8 billion in funding cuts largely for the poor and the elderly.
According to The New York Times, quote, “the purchase of the custom hardwood table, chairs and hutch came a month after a top agency staff member filed a whistleblower complaint charging Mr. Carson`s wife, Candy Carson, with pressuring department officials to find money for the expense ofredecoration of his offices, even if it meant circumventing the law.”
Mr. Carson didn`t know the table had been purchased, but does not believe the cost was too steep and does not intend to return it said Arathi Williams (ph), a HUD spokesman. Carson joins the likes of EPA chief Scott Pruit, whose office spent almost $25,000 on a secure phone booth and who says he has to travel first class so that ordinary people won`t yell at him about the job he`s doing. Interior Department Secretary Ryan Zinke, who is also criticized for his travel in the form of questionable charter flights, and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin who asked to use a government jet for his three country honeymoon, but was denied.
Oh, also, former HHS Secretary Tom Price who, of course, resigned last September after stories of his extravagant travel costs.
Republican Strategist Shermichael Singleton, worked on Ben Carson`s 2016 campaign, later served as a senior adviser at HUD, but was fired after writings critical of President Trump surfaced during his vetting process.
And Chris Lu is a former White House cabinet secretary under President Barack Obama.
Shermichael, let me start with you, does not look great the dining room story, not look great.
Name: SHERMICHAEL SINGLETON ( FORMER BEN CARSON CAMPAIGN OFFICIAL) ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, Chris, it doesn`t look great at all. And I`m a bit surprised by the quote by the spokesperson because, you know, I did work for Dr. Carson when he ran for president. I became his communications director afterwards and I can tell you Dr. Carson is a very, very frugal person, and so that quote does not seem to be in sync with the Dr. Carson that I know. And so I`m a bit surprised the spokesperson would have given that quote. And I even questioned if the secretary was even aware that the spokesperson made that quote on his behalf.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, he should – if wasn`t aware, he should be now if you`re watching, Dr. Carson, that was your spokesperson saying you need the $31,000 table.
And I wanted to ask you, Chris, about David Shulkin, because he`s the one Obama cabinet secretary holdover, widely respected, I think unanimously improved. He`s been in trouble for a trip he took on the public dime where it appears like they may have fabricated an award his was getting. Like, here`s a guy who was an Obama person, who was not part of the Trump world, who appears to be doing the same thing.
Name: CHRIS LU ( FORMER HUD ADVISER) ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Chris, I think it`s fair to say David Shulkin is no longer an Obama appointee. When you make the decision to join this administration, you adopt the ethics of this administration. And all of this begins from the person at the top. And when you have a president that doesn`t take ethics seriously, that sets the tone for the rest of the administration. So, it`s not only Price and Zinke and Shulkin, I think been shown that over half of the Trump cabinet has already engaged in ethically questionable conduct.
Shulkin went on a European boondoggle where he got free tickets to Wimbledon. He had this whole long trip where they looked at castles. You know, look, the $31,000 table is egregious, but it`s just one of the examples about how these people are essentially using the U.S. Treasury as a piggy bank. And this idea that $31,000 is not too steep, let me give you some perspective, that`s twice the amount of money that a minimum wage worker would earn for the entire year in the United States.
In the Obama administration, we couldn`t even take the Acela (ph) from D.C. to New York.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Shermichael, one thing to Christian`s point, there is a kind of shamelessness here. I mean, you`re saying you`re surprised and you know Dr. Carson, it`s remarkable to me – usually the incentive to not do this is getting caught. I mean, it`s not that the people necessarily don`t want like to redecorate new offices, they are worried that it will come out and it will look bad. Do you think that`s not operating on these folks right now?
Name: SINGLETON ; Gender: male ; Race:  latino,african ; Dialogue:  I think the administration in general writ-large has a problem with ethics, right? I think when you think about protecting our government institutions, there is an expectation that we the people, the American people, expect by people we put in power, people go to work every day, Chris, working as hard as they can – mothers and fathers doing the best they can, and when you think about the massive amount of money that have been wasted on frivolous things, I think people have a right outraged by it and to be upset by it.
And I can`t imagine, as a Republican, someone in the Obama administration, or Obama appointees acting in the same behavior, Republicans would have been outraged. And so there`s a heightened level of hypocrisy here that I`m extremely troubled by.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  How does this get patrolled, Chris? I mean, you were cabinet secretary, and that`s the person that literally has the job of liaising with the folks out in the cabinet who were in the agency doing stuff like this, like would it work in the White House?
Name: LU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, look, the message gets sent from the top. Ethics was important to us because ethics were important to Barack Obama. We screened all travel. I looked at every trip every cabinet member took.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Wait, really? You really did?
Name: LU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Every single week I saw every single trip. And if I thought that they were going to locations they shouldn`t have been going to or they were going back to their hometowns, I would pick up the phone and call them.
We vetted people. We required them to fill out their financial disclosure forms. They didn`t get multiple chances to fill out the form, they got it – they did it once and they did it well.
And more importantly, we vetted people before we put people in the jobs to make sure that they didn`t have a previous history of conflicts of interest or questionable conduct along the way.
Look, we weren`t perfect. We certainly made some mistakes. But the tone of ethics was set from the very top and it`s something we reinforced every single day.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Shermichael, do you think it`s going to be hard to get quality people as the administration rolls on?
Name: SINGLETON ; Gender: male ; Race:  latino,african ; Dialogue:  Oh, absolutely. I mean, Chris, think about it, the administration still has a significant number of positions that are still open. And part of the reason why many of those positions remain open is because no one wants to be a part of this administration. And that`s so troubling, Chris, when you think about so many agencies that have positions, critical positions, that require individuals to work on behalf of the American people that will more than likely remain unfilled, because people have questions about the ethics and morals and character not only of cabinet appointees, but also the president himself and I think it does a great disservice to the American people, also, a disservice to the Republican Party when we are, or at least we proclaim, to be the party of values and morals.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Shermichael Singleton, Chris Lu, thank you.
That is All In for this evening. The RAchel Maddow Show starts right now.
###END
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
Copy: Content and programming copyright 2018 MSNBC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2018 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.

