Watch Videos
Show: ALL IN with CHRIS HAYESDate: February 8, 2018Guest: Luis Gutierrez, Steve Levitsky, Daniel Ziblatt, Chris Lu, Mazie Hirono, Barbara Boxer

###START
Name: CHRIS MATTHEWS ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  ALL IN with Chris Hayes starts right now.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: CHRIS HAYES ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Tonight on ALL IN.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Did he know any of this back in November?
Name: RAJ SHAH ( DEPUTY PRESS SECRETARY, WHITE HOUSE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  asianindian ; Dialogue:  Again, I’m not going to get into the specifics.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  A full-blown White House scandal.
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think it’s fair to say that you know, we all could have done better.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The White House caught in multiple serious lies about the handling of abuse allegations against a top staffer.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You said it was shocking. What was he referring to.
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, the and it’s a full nature of the allegation, particularly the images.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Tonight the calls for Chief of Staff John Kelly to resign and the major questions over national security gaps inside the Trump White House. Then, the Republican tea party myth exposed by the Senate spending bill and Luiz Gutierrez on what it means for DACA. And as Omarosa tells all in a return to reality T.V. –
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Should we be alright?
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  – the authors of How Democracies Die on where we are after a year of Trump.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  It’s bad.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  When ALL IN starts right now.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Good evening from New York, I’m Chris Hayes. Tonight the White House is caught in an enormous lie about the Chief of Staff John Kelly and his decision to vouch for the honor of a man who is alleged to have physically abused his two ex-wives. The man in question of course is now former White House Staff Secretary Rob Porter who maintains in the face of significant evidence to the contrary that “these out outrageous allegations are simply false.” Now Porter handled every document that went to the President, many of them high lie classified. And yet in his nearly 13 months on the job, he was never given a full security clearance. Porter’s ex-wives say when the FBI interviewed them as part of Porter’s security clearance review, they detailed his abuse.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: JENNIFER WILLOUGHBY ( EX-WIFE OF ROB PORTER) ; Gender: female ; Race:  nativeamerican,caucasian,eastasian ; Dialogue:  During the FBI background interview for security clearance, I shared with the FBI all the details that I have shared in previous articles including access to a protective order from June of 2010 and police calls that I had made to our home.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  So you told the FBI that Rob Porter was abusive towards you?
Name: WILLOUGHBY ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Yes.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  A former White House official told NBC News that John Kelly was aware of the abuse allegations before they were first reported. There are numerous reports that Kelly and other top aides knew about them for months. And yet, John Kelly took no action to remove Porter despite the horrific nature of what Porter is alleged to have done and the fact that the allegations made Porter susceptible obviously to blackmail. In fact, according to Washington Post, after the allegations were first reported, Kelly continued to press him to stay in his job saying he could weather the storm. But it gets worse, it gets much worse because after the allegations surfaced, Kelly put out a statement strongly defending Porter.
Even after horrific photos like that one were published showing the alleged abuse, showing what this man did to the woman that was his wife, White House officials said Kelly stood by his previous statement praising Porter, a statement that read in part, “Rob Porter is a man of true integrity and honor and I can’t say enough good things about him. He is a friend, a confidante and a trusted professional. I am proud, proud to serve alongside him.” The man alleged to have done that. Late last night as it becomes clear the White House could not weather the storm, Kelly released a new statement suddenly claiming to be quote, and I’m quoting here, “shocked by the new allegations.” Shocked, he was shocked by the new allegations. The task of explaining Kelly’s change of heart fell today to White House principal Deputy Secretary Raj Shah who led the White House briefing for the very first time.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The statement changed from John Kelly yesterday morning to the statement yesterday evening. He said based on new allegations. But what changed yesterday absent a photograph in terms of new allegations?
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I think what I just referenced, the reports had additional allegations, they had more information.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So to be clear, what was so shocking that had changed? You said it was shocking. What was he referring to?
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, and it’s the full nature of the allegation, particularly the images.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK, let’s put aside, for now, the notion that John Kelly only apparently believes abuse allegations if he can see of the bruise around the eye or a fist is alleged to have gone into a woman’s face, put that aside. Shah’s claim that you saw there just isn’t true. Kelly stood by his statement after the photos came out. It was only when the public pressure grew too strong when the outcry grew too loud that John Kelly and the White House decided to effectively cut Porter loose. The briefing today Shah repeatedly declined to offer a clear explanation for what Kelly knew and when he knew it.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, there’s been some reports about the Chief of Staff. He became fully aware about these allegations yesterday. I’m not going to get into the specifics.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But did he know any of this back in November?
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Again, I’m not going to get into the specifics. I think it’s fair to say that you know, we all could have done better over the last few hours or last few days in dealing with this situation.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  You used the term fully aware. I don’t understand what that means. What does that mean John Kelly knew or didn’t know?
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I do know for instance that he had not seen images prior to his statement – the statement on Tuesday night.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Did he know of the allegations?
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Sorry, say that again.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Did he know of some allegations?
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I’m not going to get into the specific. I don’t have every single detail. I’m not going to get into every single specific.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Does the President retain full confidence in his Chief of Staff?
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  What could the White House have done better?
Name: SHAH ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, again, I’m not going to get into a tick-tock and all these detailed specifics. I think a lot of the individuals were involved with the White House response to this, myself included. I think a lot of us could have done better.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Joining me now Chris Lu who’s a White House Cabinet Secretary under President Obama. Can you tell us how this would have gone in an Obama White House if someone in an FBI background check as you’re supposed to come to the White House had people bring these allegations as his ex-wives did?
Name: CHRIS LU ( FORMER CABINET SECRETARY, WHITE HOUSE) ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Well, this never would have happened. I mean, we had a very strict vetting process that would have had detailed interviews with our appointees in addition to the FBI background check. And in this case, you had an example of an instance of two ex-wives making statements to the FBI agents. You also apparently had a police report. The minute that came up, I guarantee you the FBI flagged that for somebody in the White House. So it will be interesting to see what the timeline is here. But when that would have been flagged to somebody at the White House, probably a Deputy Chief of Staff in the Obama White House, the person in question would have had a chance to explain it, but if they did not have a credible explanation, they would have been shown the door.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right, so I want to get the timeline straight here. I mean, this is someone who is essentially working, they said he’s working on interim security clearance for over a year. How does that work?
Name: LU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, look, security clearances take some time and certainly at the beginning of the administration when you have a lot of people trying to get cleared, it’s not inconceivable that months could go by. But what is inconceivable is that you could work in such a sensitive position for 13 months with an interim clearance. And what it does is it raised questions as to did the White House deliberately slow down the process so Porter could stay in the job? Did somebody game the system? Did somebody basically override the recommendations of the FBI? In the White House, the President can grant a clearance to whoever he wants.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right. That’s the key here. I mean, what you’re saying is the FBI, and we know from these two women that they told the FBI. You’re saying the FBI would flag this. This would get to someone in the White House as soon as they flagged it, right?
Name: LU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Absolutely. The FBI does a report on everyone that they’re trying to clear and you know, 90 some percent of the cases probably, it’s just a clean report and the person gets the clearance. Something like this that would have had had multiple flags would have gone to somebody in the White House and then it’s up to them as to what to do with that report.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So there are – there’s at least one person in that White House and who would that be? Would that be the White House Counsel, the Chief of Staff?
Name: LU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, in our White House, it probably would have been either the Deputy Chief of Staff, the White House Counsel, it could have been the Head of Presidential Personnel. There would have been multiple people that would have known about this. And let’s put this in context too. We now know also that Jared Kushner has been working under interim clearance for the last year as well. Congressional Democrats have been trying to get information about that and have been unsuccessful.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Aside from the sort of moral abomination of what this individual is alleged to have done and which people look the other way, the reason the FBI does a background check is to see if you’re susceptible to blackmail while you’re handling sensitive information. Is this a security risk to have this individual, have this job with this situation?
Name: LU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Absolutely. You know, one of the questions that they always ask in the background investigations is, is this person someone who has good moral character? Do they know the difference right from wrong? Are they susceptible to blackmail? Something like this which was clearly very troubling, something very embarrassing that he didn’t want to be made public, if that were dangled in front of him, look, I don’t know Rob Porter. By all accounts, you know, I’m not going to say he’s an honorable person but he has led a successful career. I’m not saying that he is susceptible to blackmail but this is why those questions get asked.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And just final questions here, when you’re the Staff Secretary, everything comes through you. I mean, you are seeing basically everything that goes to the President in terms of the level of sensitivity of the information you see.
Name: LU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Absolutely. The briefing book goes through you, all the classified information goes through you. You have the opportunity to sit in the White House situation room when national security decisions are being made. You are the gatekeeper.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  All right, Chris Lu, thanks for your time tonight.
Name: LU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  With me Democratic Senator Mazie Hirono of Hawaii. Senator, do you think that John Kelly should lose his job over this?
Name: MAZIE HIRONO  ( HAWAII) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I definitely think that Rob Porter should lose his job and so I’m glad that he resigned. But the thing is that this kind of vetting which seems very loose and not particularly in depth goes to the President. I think that ultimately the President is responsible and he sets the tone. And so if John Kelly resigns over the fact that something he either knew or should have known and yet they kept this person on for a year, I think that he should consider resigning. But you know what, who is he going to be replaced by, someone else is going to do the President’s bidding?.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You’ve written a letter, you and your colleagues requesting investigation into the White House security clearance process. Why?
Name: HIRONO ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian ; Dialogue:  Well, this follows a number of inquiries that I’ve already made previously. When then FBI Director Comey testified, I asked him a series of questions about the FBI’s involvement in vetting for clearance people at the White House. So there was a whole series of questions. I followed that up with a letter a couple of months later asking for a suspension of Jared Kushner’s clearance until it could be investigated as to whether or not he should have access to highly classified information. And so this is yet another inquiry as to the responsibility of the office of the – well, basically the White House on who they hire and who gets clearances for access to highly, highly classified information and any kind of information. And with regard to Rob Porter, you know, this is – they also need to care about the stability of the individual, the moral turpitude, all of those kinds of factors are very much at play as Chris mentioned just a little while ago.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I mean, shouldn’t – don’t you think that what he is alleged to have done should be disqualifying to work in the White House?
Name: HIRONO ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian ; Dialogue:  I would say so. I would say so because you know, I’ve also served on the intelligence committee and we know that if someone is a potential target for blackmail because there’s some – there’s some information that that person would want to have hidden, that person should not have access to classified information, should not be working at the White House in the level particularly in the kind of level that Rob Porter was in.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The White House Counsel Don McGahn has also appears to be in the chain of commands. In recent weeks an ex-girlfriend of Porter’s who also works in the Trump administration contacted White House Counsel Don McGahn, voiced her distress after discovering evidence of a romantic between Porter and White House Communications Director Hope Hicks according to two administration officials. She also alleged he had abused his two ex-wives. It looks like Don McGahn was flagged, as well. Do you trust Don McGahn’s judgment?
Name: HIRONO ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian ; Dialogue:  I’ve had some conversations with Don McGahn that have been perfectly professional but as I said, what this raises is just the atmosphere at the White House where they do not seem to carefully vet people and even if they vet people, they allow people who may be subject to be blackmail or really setting a tone at the White House. There are so many serious questions about all the people that the President has surrounding him. And of course, it starts with the President himself who is very prone to lying every single day. He changes his minds about major issues every single day and so it’s not surprising that there are other people around him who raise serious concerns about their own behavior and their own ability to make good judgments.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  All right, Senator Mazie Hirono, thanks for being with me.
Name: HIRONO ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you. Aloha.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Next more on the calls for Chief of Staff John Kelly to resign amid questions what he knew when about the abuse allegations against Rob Porter, Joy Reid, and Senator Barbara Boxer is here to talk about that after this two-minute break.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  – the domestic abuse allegations against former White House Aide Rob Porter were first reported Tuesday night, allegations Porter denied, Chief of Staff John Kelly put out a statement calling Porter a man of true integrity and honor, a friend, a confidant and a trusted professional. The following day after the Intercept published photos of Porter’s first wife battered face after an alleged incident in 2005, the White House told reporters Kelly stood by his statement. That is John Kelly’s judgment that someone who did this is a man of true integrity and honor.
It wasn’t until hours later late last night that Kelly released another statement professing to be shocked by the allegations though it’s unclear when he became shocked since he reiterated support for Porter after the photos were published. And that I have to say is par for the course for a White House Chief of Staff who called a sitting Congresswoman an empty barrel from the White House podium and lied about her conduct refusing to apologize even after tape emerged proving he had lied. The same Chief of Staff who just two days ago suggested DREAMer who’s didn’t sign up for the DACA program were simply lazy.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: JOHN KELLY ( CHIEF OF STAFF, WHITE HOUSE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  There are 690,000 official DACA registrants. And the President sent over what amounts to be two and a half times that number to 1.8 million. The difference between 690 and 1.million were the people that some would say were too afraid to sign up, others would say were too lazy to get off their asses that they didn’t sign up.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Kelly doubled down on that statement later that same day.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: KELLY ; Gender: female ; Race:  eastasian,pacificislander,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Some of them didn’t hear about the program, hard to believe but OK. Some of them were perhaps a little bit concerned about signing up. I got to say that some of them should have probably gotten off the couch and signed up.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Joy Reid is the Host of “A.M. JOY” right here on MSNBC, Barbara Boxer a former Democratic Senator from California. Joy, I’ll start with you. Kelly is at the center of this indisputably and a pattern seems to have emerged about his judgment.
Name: JOY REID ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, I’ve been re-tweeting you whenever you writhe that you know, Donald Trump hasn’t hijacked the Republican Party, he is the Republican Party. He agrees with their ideology and their ethos. I think the same goes for John Kelly. This whole myth that was a largely a media-created myth that he was the grown-up in the room, that because he’s a General, that automatically means he’s a man of a certain kind of honor and integrity. You know, everyone respects his military service, absolutely.
It’s you know, it’s admirable what he’s been able to achieve as a man of the military. But it’s just a guy. He agrees with Donald Trump. He has the same ethos as Donald Trump. He agrees with him on immigrants, he agrees with him on his sort of take on them. You know, this guy praised Robert E. Lee. He praised the Confederacy. I don’t know why at this point we’re surprised that he stood by this guy. He’s been Chief of Staff since what, last July. If he was – if they were – if the FBI informed the White House that this guy couldn’t get a security clearance, the Chief of Staff would know that.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Senator, are you – I mean, I feel like I lose my capacity to be shocked. But I have to say, I genuinely – I’m shocked that this individual was given the job he was in that White House and then defended after it became public after they knew what he is alleged to have done.
Name: BARBARA BOXER ( FORMER SENATOR FROM CALIFORNIA) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, we have to remember that Kelly had to know all about this. And the people very close to Donald Trump at the very high level knew about this. I’ve been visited by the FBI, they asked my opinion about certain judges that were proposed for the bench because they came from California and I knew them. They turn over every rock and I would – I know this in my heart if not I didn’t read about it, but I know in my heart that the FBI must have seen that photo, must have seen the complaint that was written to the court. They knew what they were seeing.
So, it is shocking that this individual would pass and you know, would vet and be put in this situation where yes, not only is he, you know, subjected to the possible blackmail because those are very serious things, but also having a wife beater close to the President, so close to the President, it is stunning to me. And you know, I agree with joy that I guess a lot of people are surprised about Kelly. I started to get more and more surprised after the last few comments she talked about. But I think we were clinging to the hope that somebody could bring order and some kind of morality, if you will, to this White House instead, we see chaos continuing.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, and I would say also, to your point about John Kelly, I mean, I – you know, there’s always something bizarrely as sort of condescending about it, as well. Like, John Kelly is a man who’s an adult of long sterling career in the United States armed forces. He knows what his views are. He knows who he’s working for and he has chosen to do that because that’s what he wants, that’s the world view that he wants to pursue.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Absolutely. He was for the Muslim Ban, he’s for deportation, mass deportation, he signed the order that describes how DREAMers are now eligible to be deported. I think that the media wants to believe it partly because he’s a man of the military and we all respect the military but also this sort of hope there is someone that can contain Donald Trump. That maybe there is this magical grown-up in the White House that will constrain him. Let’s keep in mind by the way that this partisan Porter was also allegedly dating someone incredibly close not President, Hope Hicks and that that didn’t seem to raise enough alarm that this person is that close and more than one of his ex-partners has said that he’s violent toward women.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Abusive.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And that didn’t seem to rouse. Look, by the way, Donald Trump is not a man who exactly has exactly been good to the women in his life. He is accused multiple times, what is it 19 accusers of sexual harassment or worse. You know, the environment that this administration is creating writ large for women, what they think about women, what they feel about women, the respect for women. it’s not as if before this they were on – you know, they were on a high moral plain and this is knocking them off of it. The only surprise to me is that people are so shocked at this point at anything that John Kelly does or says.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I got to– go ahead.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, I was just going to quickly say, if you listen to some of the things John Kelly has said about women, they must be respected, they must be revered, this is the height of hypocrisy to allow a wife beater to get that close to this president.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, I want to play actually what he said remembering a time when women were sacred. These are John Kelly’s words. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: KELLY ; Gender: female ; Race:  eastasian,pacificislander,caucasian ; Dialogue:  When I was a kid growing up, a lot of things were sacred in our country. Women were sacred and looked upon with great honor. That’s obviously not the case anymore as we see from recent cases.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You know, I mean, how you square that with – how you square that with what –
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Was Frederica Wilson a woman that he considered to be held sacred. I don’t seem to recall him treating her with much respect or honor so I’m not sure whether that statement means a heck of a lot.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Even in the moment.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, I mean, he called a woman who is also a United States Congresswoman who represents constituents in the United States Congress an empty barrel, lied about her and he certainly hasn’t held her sacred enough to apologize to her if he was simply mistaken. So I’m not sure even that changes my view that this is John Kelly. Let’s just accept that this is who he is so that he can then make evaluations about what he’s doing.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  All right, Joy Reid and Barbara Boxer, thank you both.
Name: REID ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK, thanks.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Still to come, Congressman Luis Gutierrez on the fate of DACA negotiations if and that right now at this hour is looking like if Congress passes a budget deal tonight. He joins me ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK. So, as we approach today in the vote in Congress to ultimately pass a two-year budget deal and it’s unclear what’s going to happen with that so stay tuned. But as we approach that, allow me to whisk you back in time to the year 2009. You may remember, it was the worst financial crisis in 70 years, unemployment careening towards 11 percent, up to 800,000 jobs a month being lost and a consensus among economists we desperately need to inject stimulus into the economy. The White House proposed a package which totaled $787 billion in tax cuts and federal spending by the time President Obama signed into law a month after his inauguration. The Republicans who had just spent the duration of the Bush years exploding deficits through Bush tax cuts, war spending, and Medicare Part D suddenly on a dime got deficit religion.
That stimulus bill that President Obama was pushing got a grand total of three Republican votes in the Senate and zero not one, zero in the House. Then two years later, Republicans threatened en masse to really quite literally destroy the American economy and the global economy by threatening to refuse to raise the debt ceiling sending the U.S. into default. They held the global economy and the American economy hostage in exchange for the Budget Control Act and an unbelievably severe austerity measure that resulted in $1.2 trillion in cuts over the next ten years. The effect of that was to slow down recovery and prolong the misery of millions of Americans needlessly. Now, back then, Republicans went on and on and on about the debts and the deficits and our children and our grandchildren. They would get weepy at the very thought of all the debt that the grandchildren would have. We would be here for a month straight if we played all the tape but there was the general idea of the refrain.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: JOHN BOEHNER ( FORMER SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  A budget which spends too much, taxes too much and borrows too much from our kids and our grandkids.
Name: PAUL RYAN  ( SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Now, you’re going to hear three words or three phrases. Spends too much, borrows too much, taxes too much.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Their hostage taking resulted in the first-ever downgrade of the U.S. Credit Rating. That was still when the economy was very much from the recovery mode. Fast forward, well, six years. The economy’s approaching something that looks like full employment thankfully. Republicans are now in power and guess what, they are doing their own recovery act. I know that sounds crazy but they are. It’s, of course, one that mostly benefits large corporations, wealthy people, and defense contractors, but it’s a stimulus nonetheless. And get this, the Trump stimulus will cost more than the Recovery Act Republicans fought against so forcefully when Barack Obama was President. I’m not making this up.
Their Recovery Act comprised the of the tax cut package they already passed and the two-year budget deal they hammered out that they’re trying to pass now has given hundreds of billions of dollars to wealthy and corporations and will explode the deficit and will likely total more in cumulative tax cuts and spending and borrowing than Obama’s stimulus package even though Obama’s stimulus package came at the worst moment in America since the great depression and this one arrives at a moment of near full employment.
So, after eight years of sob stories about the debt and deficit and our children and grandchildren and the tea party and tri-corner hats and the rallies, and how we lost our way during George W. Bush and we need to stop spending and all of that, it was all, all of it nonsense, a lie from start to finish, all in bad faith, a gaggle of freedom caucus members and Rand Paul sort of notwithstanding. I say sort of because they all just voted to increase the deficit by over a trillion dollars’ worth of tax cuts.
But the most important thing to understand after all this, the most important thing to understand about American politics is that it’s not a debate over the size of government but a debate about who controls it and who it works for. Which is why we now have the Donald Trump Recovery Act in which the Republican Party injects $800 billion of stimulus over two years into an already full economy because this time around, they control the purse strings and threw can direct that money where they want it to go.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The government is currently headed towards yet another shutdown at midnight tonight, at least for a few hours, because Senator Rand Paul continues to hold up a vote on a bipartisan budget deal to avert it. Paul problem with the bill, too much spending.
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said she can’t support the bill either because it fails to provide any resolution on protecting DACA recipients.
In a letter to her Democratic colleagues, Pelosi called out House Speaker Paul Ryan saying his refusal to allows a bipartisan proposal process for a DACA proposal demeans the dignity of the House of Representatives, even though Pelosi took to the House floor yesterday for a recordbreaking eight hour speech to hammer home this point, her letter to Democrats does not specifically tell her colleagues to vote against the budget bill. And when asked explicitly whether she was whipping her caucus against it, her answer was basically not really.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  So, are you working against the cap deal, or are you releasing your vote?
Name: NANCY PELOSI (  CALIFORNIA) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I’m just telling people why I’m voting the way I’m voting.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  With me now, Congress Luis Gutierrez, Democrat from Illinois, who does not support the budget deal without DACA protection.
So, here is my understanding, the Senate has disentangled funding CRs and DACA because they feel like they have a credible promise from Mitch McConnell they’re going to move on it. What is the status in the House?
Name: LUIS GUTIERREZ (  ILLINOIS) ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian,asianindian,latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, the status in the House is we’re at zero. We’re at nothing. When we began this conversation, Chris, you and I were talking about it last September. It was to use the leverage. And we’ve given it all up, because not only is the budget and raising the caps, the spending caps, our military and domestic spending in this budget deal, that’s eliminated. So, we haven’t coupled the Dreamers to that. And we’re also raising the debt ceiling to some unprecedentednumber. So, we’ve lost that.
But I want to spend just one moment to say thank you and to please the public to understand how courageous like my sister from New York Nydia Velazquez. There are billions of dollars inthis budget for Puerto Rico, for health care, for rebuilding the island. And she and I and others are going to, notwithstanding vote against it, because it also says, and we also feel that it says, we’re going to send people that are Americans – because that’s what I see in Dreamers, and I see the future, members of congress and the future of our nation, and I see fellow Americans we don’t want to send them to a foreign country. We want them to stay here in the country that they love and the country that they served in the armed forces.
And so to her and to Lujan Grisham the chairwoman of the caucus and every Democrat, white, black, Latino, gay and straight in the Democratic caucus, and there will be many of us who tomorrow will vote. We’re voting on principle tomorrow, not because it’s going to be easy. There’s a lot to like in this budget.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That’s a fascinating – you’ve just given a monologue that gives both sides of the arguments here, right So, they understand what they’re doing. What Ryan keeps doing is sort of taking hostages and then releasing them sequentially.
What you’re saying is we’re out of leverage if we vote on this, and yet at the same time what you’re recognizing is there are things in there that are important – funding for Puerto Rico, the lifting on the caps. I guess the question is, is that why there’s been no unified Democratic message today, because I can’t tell what the Democratic message from the House is.
Name: GUTIERREZ ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian,asianindian,latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yeah, it’s really, really difficult. And that’s why I want to try to stress the positive because I have to say very honestly and very clearly, anyone that votes for this budget deal that comes from the Senate and the House, when it comes over, is voting to allow the deportation of Dreamers, because now there is no leverage and no way forward.
If we stop this and we still, now, Chris, there’s still a little light at the end of the tunnel, right? Maybe because the only way this budget passes, the only way, even though there are 240 Republicans, is with 67 Democrats voting for it. If that happens, then Democrats have cooperated with Republicansto end our fight at this stage.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Wait, here’s the thing I don’t understand, so the House Freedom Caucus is balking. Everybody wants this deal in leadership, the White House wants the deal. 67 Democrats are needed. Don’t you guys have the leverage? Can’t – I don’t understand why can’t you get this demand on Paul Ryan under these conditions, given the fact that if he doesn’t pass it, it’s on him?
Name: GUTIERREZ ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian,asianindian,latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Because Democrats today – look, Democrats like to say manana, tomorrow, when it comes to immigration.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right, so then – what you’re saying.
Name: GUTIERREZ ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian,asianindian,latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  And Republicans say never, right, they say never.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What you’re saying is Democrats will not unite enough on this to credibly be able to threaten Ryan?
Name: GUTIERREZ ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian,asianindian,latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, I don’t think the unity will be there. And here’s why I believe – they don’t understand or don’t part from the premise as I and many other Democrats will, that we’re all in it together, that today we stand up for Dreamers because tomorrow we’re going to stand up when there’s a Muslim ban, when they come after our gay brothers and sisters, when they come after Planned Parenthood. You know, they’re going to pick us apart.
And I just want to say very clearly, yes, I’m Latino. I’m proud to be from Puerto Rico. I love my island. I’m going to vote for it notwithstanding. But if Planned Parenthood were on the block, I would vote against this budget. If gay marriage were on the block, I would vote against this budget. If there were damage to our civil rights – look, we have to understand we’re all in it together. And I think that that’s an important Democratic message.
So I want to stress tonight that there are Democrats that are going to stand tall, notwithstanding how painful, how hard, and how just it’s just going to be brutal for them. But they’re going to do it because they understand that those 800,000 young men and women are important. Our immigration policy is the backbone of who we are as a nation, right. And we’re going to stand up for it.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Nothing makes your political opponents happier than to hear a vote is brutal. Congressman Luis Gutierrez, thanks for making time this evening.
Name: GUTIERREZ ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian,asianindian,latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Ahead, former White House staffer Omarosa Manigault-Newman breaks her silence where else, on an episode of reality TV show, in tears. What she said and how we got to this point ahead.
And the presidential parade in tonight’s Thing One, Thing Two next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thing One tonight, reaction continues to pour in about Donald Trump’s demand for a military parade. And so far, even members of his own party seem lukewarm on the idea.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: LINDSEY GRAHAM (  SOUTH CAROLINA) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  North Korean and Soviet style military parade would be counter to our own interests. It, to me, would be cheesy and weak.
Name: JEFF FLAKE (  ARIZONA) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We usually don’t do that. It would seem a little out of place to me.
Name: JOHN KENNEDY (  LOUISIANA) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think confidence is silent and insecurity is loud. We’re not North Korea. We’re not Russia. We’re not China. And I don’t want to be.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But it’s not just lawmakers mocking the idea, 10 day White House alum Anthony “The Mooth” Scaramucci tweeted, “I really hope we’re not having a military parade.” That’s the Mooch’s take on it.
And even Trump TV isn’t fully on board.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  We could soon honor our military with a parade marching through Washington.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  There are a lot of people at the Pentagon who would love to show off all the equipment and personnel.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I don’t know. It seems like a waste of money. 12 minutes now to the hour.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What has been the reaction at the Pentagon to the president’s request?
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Well, I would describe it, Dana, as a collective eye roll from military leaders who I’ve spoken to. Most thought it was a joke at first, many fear that the U.S. will look like the dictators they scoff at around the world.
Name: UNIDENTIIFED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They could give him replicas, little mini replicas. I mean, he wants to see what he has. They – I had some of those when I was a kid.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So, why would Trump want a parade that people are rolling their eyes over and Republicans are saying will make him look insecure and weak? Especially when we already have parades here that do that. That’s Thing Two in 60 seconds.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  President Trump reportedly really wants a parade to show off tanks and gun trucks and a lot of people are mocking him over it. Of course, the irony is there have been parades mocking Trump for over a year, now like this float in a German parade or the numerous Trump depictions at marches in America – the Trump chicken, for example, or the inflatable Trump rat in New York City.
But one video that popped up in our Twitter feed last night, #inners, join the online conversation, you guys – this video was from a parade in Seattle last summer, and it’s almost painful.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
(LAUGHTER)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FAMEL ; Gender: male ; Race:  eastasian,asianindian,latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  This is hilarious.
Oh, my gosh.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Do you remember Omarosa Manigault-Newman’s opinion when Donald Trump was running for the presidency?
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: OMAROSA MANIGAULT-NEWMAN ( FORMER APPRENTICE CONTESTANT) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Every critic, every detractor, will have to bow down to President Trump. It’s everyone who’s ever doubtedDonald, whoever disagreed, whoever challenged him, it is the ultimate revenge to become the most powerful man in the universe.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Deeply creepy, but life comes at you fast. After having left, or having been fired from the White House, Omarosa is back in her element, the place that she best loves: reality television. She’s now on celebrity Big Brother and doing what all reality stars doing making dramatic TV moments like this.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MANIGAULT-NEWMAN ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Like I was haunted by tweets every single day, like what is he going to tweet next?
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Does anybody say to him what are you doing?
Name: MANIGAULT-NEWMAN ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I tried to be that person and then all of the people around him attacked me. It was like keep her away, don’t give her access, don’t let her talk to him.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Should we be worried? Don’t say that. Because we are worried, but I need you to say no it’s going to be OK.
Name: MANIGAULT-NEWMAN ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, it’s going to not be OK. It’s not.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It’s that everything about that is perfect.
When asked about Omarosa today, the White House gave a response, so canned that you can actually see Raj Shah turning the pages of his briefing book so he can read out his prepared answerword for word.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What is the White House’s reaction to comments made by former White House aide Omarosa on Celebrity Big Brother where she said, quote, see is haunted by the president’s tweets. She described the situation inside the White House as bad and said it is not going to be OK?
Name: RAJ SHAH ( WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN) ; Gender: male ; Race:  asianindian ; Dialogue:  Not very seriously. Omarosa was fired three times on The Apprentice and this is the fourth time we let her go. She had limited contact with thepresident while here. She has no contact now.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You look at this and think to yourself is this how democracies die? We’ll discuss with the authors of a new book with that title next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Since the election of Donald Trump a debate has raged about his effect on the state of American democracy. Ross Douthat over at The New York Times wrote just this week that, quote, the project of the containment of Trump has been much more successful than critics feared.
But not everyone is sold on that. The authors of a new book, How Democracies Die, have spent their careers studying the collapse of democracies and they see cause for concern.
Coauthors of that book, Steve Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt, both professors of government at Harvard are here with me tonight. Let’s start on this question, there are a lot of takes saying things are not as bad as you thought they would be in terms of the way the president is contained by the courts and the staff and sometimes by the party. What do you guys make of that?
Name: DANIEL ZIBLATT ( CO-AUTHOR, “HOW DEMOCRACIES DIE”) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  In some respects, there is reason for optimism. American democracy is one of the oldest democracies in the world. Our checks and balances, some of our institutions of checks and balances have worked. Our courts, media have done a great job, but one of the key institutions, one of the key checks, the Congress has really played a lapdog rule under the control of the Republicans, and in many instances served as a shield for President Trump.
And so in this sense, we’re not quite so confident that things are working out as well as we would have hoped them to.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Steve, one of the things you write about in the book is, you know, you’ve done all this work on other democracies and they had democratic slipping and for people in the U.S., there is allthis cry of this is not normal, I’ve never seen this before. What do you see in the first year that looks familiar in the work you’ve done with democracies that have experienced retrenchment?
Name: STEVEN LEVITSKY ( CO-AUTHOR, “HOW DEMOCRACIES DIE”) ; Gender: male ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  One of the common things we’ve seen in the United States is the Trump administration’s efforts to go after what we call the referees, who are agencies that serve as neutral arbiters in our democratic system. Law enforcement agencies, intelligence agencies and the courts. Those are critical institutions in a democracy and almost alwaysamong the first institutions that an elected authoritarian goes after in an effort to turn them to gain their loyalty to use them as shields against investigation, against prosecution, on the one hand, and eventually to use them as weapons against opponents.
That’s one of the first and one of the most damaging things that not only successfully that Trump is trying to do is go after to capture the referees and bring them over to his side to politicize them, and ultimately to use them as weapons against his opponents.
It’s something we see in virtually every electoral authoritarian regime we’ve studied.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Daniel can you give specific examples of places where you’ve seen this kind of disintegration happen specifically in this way?
Name: ZIBLATT ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yeah, so a key point in the way democracies die today is not through military coups, but increasingly since the Cold War the election of political politicians who are elected, so in that since have democratic legitimacy but once in office go after democratic institutions.
So this has happened quite frequently recently since the collapse of communism in Hungary, once he came into power in the early 2000s, he imposed a retirement age very quickly on judges so that he could then stack the courts up with his allies. So one sees this and this happened in Venezuela under Chavez. This is happening in Turkey has done similar things where after being investigated for corruption December 2013, as they got closer and closer to his family, the chief prosecutor was fired, and all sorts of prosecutors, thousands of prosecutors have been fired since then.
So, this, again, is a pattern that we see. We do think the American system of checks and balances, the fact that we have a public debate about this in the United States right now is a good sign because often these things happen in the dead of night.
So the fact these are happening in the public and lots of media coverage and there is lots of push back gives us room for hope but we should not take democracy for granted.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  This question about which institutions hold, Steve, and you talk about the neutral arbiters, I keep having this thought about the famous Andrew Jackson Trail of Tears in which the court rules against him and he says well, screw you, I’m going to do it anyway and we’ve been talking about the president and Mueller and if Mueller compels the subpoena.
The idea that things hold because people assent to authority and the danger of not assenting to that authority and how palpable it really is in our circumstance.
Name: LEVITSKY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think they are more real today than they have been in many decades. It’s not the rules themselves that bind us and that bind our politicians, it’s an agreement among both parties they will use the rules with restraint but there is this increasingly restraint erode in this country driven mostly by the republican party. There is a sense that among both parties now that politicians should use any means necessary to win, even if that means really, really pushing at the margins.
So go back to Nixon, at the end of the day, Nixon compiled with orders of the court. It’s not as clear today, you know, generation and a half later whether the president would do the same thing.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It’s funny you bring that up because I’m listening to the Slate podcast on Watergate and when they get to the tapes section and they try all these different faints to get out of it and ultimately, they are like well, we’re caught, we’re going to turn them over.
You think well, they could have burned them. They could have said well, no. And the fact they didn’t is the turning point for the story. I guess, David, the question to you are what are ways those institutions get strengthened? What lessons have you learned about preventing against this kind of retrenchment?
Name: ZIBLATT ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yeah, no, it’s a very hard situation because its facing a leader with authority tendencies, we’re in a tough spot. Because there is a bit of a dilemma. On the one hand, certainly democrats and opponents of Donald Trump who are fearful about this need to fight hard and stand up for the principles and win elections but on the other hand, they need to also do so in a way that reinforces democratic norms and this is hard to do. If there is so much at stake, we think maybe we need to fight like the other side.
When we look throughout the world and history, whenever democrats faced this dilemma and make the choice to abandon this self-restraint is very – it ends badly.
Really, the thing we’re concerned about and the thing we’re worried about is the spiraling effect can take place in which people fight back in ways that end up damaging the democracy.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Steve Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt, thank you both for your time. It is a fascinating book.
Before we go, a quick reminder, if you can’t catch us live, you should tune into the pod cast and listen to the entire show for free wherever you get your podcast. That’s all for All In. The Rachel Maddow Show starts now. Good evening, Rachel.
###END
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
Copyright 2018 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.>

