Watch Videos
Show: ALL IN with CHRIS HAYESDate: February 23, 2018Guest: Delaney Tarr, Danell Malloy, Natasha Bertrand

###START
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: CHRIS HAYES ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Tonight on ALL IN.
Name: AMERICAN CROWD ; Gender: male ; Race:  latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  As they cheered at CPAC –
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Blood money. Blood money.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yet another top Trump aide, pleads guilty. This time to conspiracy against the United States.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Blood money.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Why are you pleading guilty?
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Tonight, what we know about the fifth guilty plea in the Mueller probe, what the flipping of Rick Gates means for Paul Manafort? Just what were these two up to with their massive alleged money laundering ring and how it may all tie back to the President?
Name: PAUL MANAFORT ( FORMER CHAIRMAN, TRUMP CAMPAIGN) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s what he said. That`s what I said. That`s obviously what the, our position is.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Plus, the mass corporate exodus away from the NRA as the President fully aligns himself with gun dealers. And the President gets gruesome on immigration.
Name: DONALD TRUMP ( PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They slash them with machetes.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  A Trymaine Lee report on fear mongering and MS-13.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They should give him a retainer – MS13 in terms of promotion and outreach.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  When ALL IN starts right now.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Good evening from New York, I`m Chris Hayes. The former Deputy Campaign Chairman to the President of the United States is a felon. Rick Gates who was first indicted on fraud charges last fall pleaded guilty today. You see him walking to court, to two counts of conspiracy against the U.S. and lying to investigators. Gates wasn`t just Paul Manafort`s deputy, after working on the Trump campaign, he held a top post on the Trump inaugural committee and went on to cofound an outside non-profit promoting the President Trump`s agenda.
Later working directly for the President`s long-time friend investor Tom Barrack. He is now the third member of the President`s campaign to plead guilty to a federal crime. He joins George Papadopoulos who advised the campaign on foreign policy and of course, Michael Flynn whom the President chose to be his single most important and powerful National Security Adviser at the White House, a job in which he lasted 24 days.
Three of the President`s associates are felons, criminals. As part of his plea deal, Gates has agreed to cooperate with Special Counsel Robert Mueller whose team told the court they might let Gates avoid prison time if they`re satisfied with what he shares. And that is likely not very good news for one Paul Manafort, Gates` long time boss and mentor who is accused right now in the scope of this is staggering and will hard to get your head around, accused of orchestrating a massive enduring, international conspiracy to launder millions of dollars of money dodge tax and banking rules and disguise his work for a pro-Russian political party in Ukraine.
Already Gates` guilty plea appears to have resulted in a new indictment against Manafort returned by the grand jury today. We`ll get to that in just a bit. And with Gates` help, Mueller may be able to get to the bottom of the central mystery that surrounds Manafort to this day. Why was it that Paul Manafort worked for free as the Trump Campaign Chairman when he was reportedly in debt to pro-Russian interests by as much as $17 million at the same time? And well, did that have anything to do with his outreach to a Russian billionaire, a one-time business partner to whom he owed money at the height of the campaign? At the time, Manafort denied the Trump campaign had any ties to Russian oligarchs.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  So to be clear, Mr. Trump has no financial relationships with any Russian oligarchs?
Name: MANAFORT ; Gender: female ; Race:  latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s what he said – that`s what I said – that`s obviously what our position is.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s what he said, that`s what I said, that`s obviously what our position is. Today, that same Paul Manafort said in a statement “Notwithstanding that Rick Gates pled guilty today, I continue to maintain my innocence. I had hoped and expected my business colleague would have had the strength to continue the battle to prove innocence. For reasons yet to surface, he chose to do otherwise. This does not alter my commitment to defend myself against the untrue piled up charges contained in the indictments against me.”
But Gates may have more to offer to Special Counsel beyond information about Manafort. Remember, he remained in the President Donald Trump`s orbit long after Manafort had been booted from the campaign, traveling on the candidate`s plane through election day, overseeing the planning of Trump`s inaugural festivities and later landing a job working for one of the President`s his closest outside advisers and friends.
According to the Daily Beast, Gates was spotted lurking around the White House as recently as last June. For more on this day`s big developments, let`s bring in Natasha Bertrand who covers the Russia investigation, a Staff Writer for the Atlantic, Matt Miller former Chief Justice Department Spokesperson under President Obama and an MSNBC Justice Analyst. Natasha, a lot of back forth about whether this would happen. What`s your reaction to it happening today?
Name: NATASHA BERTRAND ( STAFF WRITER, THE ATLANTIC) ; Gender: female ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s not surprising at all that Rick Gates pleaded guilty. We had expected this for weeks leading up to this. There was a – there was a lot of reporting going on that he was ultimately going to flip. Now, of course, he said in his statement today that those press reports were wrong and that he suddenly had a change of heart. Now, that is very unlikely given what we saw today which was this plea agreement. Usually, things like that are in the works for quite some time. Now, what was unusual was that we saw this indictment that was issued last night.
And that created a lot of confusion about whether he was actually going to plead guilty because it`s very unusual for an indictment to be filed like that on the eve of someone pleading guilty. So it`s definitely possible that perhaps Gates really did have a change of heart and he realized that he wasn`t going to get the kind of plea agreement or the kind of deal that he wanted and the kind of legal representation that he was going – that was going to get him out of this so he figured I really have nothing to lose at this point. I really just have to take the deal.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You know, Matt, I saw one conservative commentator saying you know, prosecutors with – you know, have every power to get people to roll sort of in a kind of offended by this, which was you know, welcome, welcome to the criminal justice system. Pleased to go down to your local court on any day of the week and watch what`s happening in America`s criminal justice system. But Mueller is coming hard at these people.
Name: MATT MILLER ( MSNBC JUSTICE ANALYST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, and look, while that statement by one particular conservative commentator maybe true, it`s not typically true for dependents like Rick Gates and Manafort who have high powered attorneys to defend them which they obviously do. The thing I look at or the thing that strikes me when I look at the news from the last few days is the sheer amount of pressure that Paul Manafort is now under. If you look at his statement, he referenced the indictments. He has now been indicted three times facing multiple counts that will put him in jail really for the rest of his life.
The case is overwhelming compelling and it`s not just the paper case now that we saw from the previous indictments. You now have a cooperating witness who isn`t any old witness but his longtime business partner who will be testifying in court and walking a jury through the crimes that he committed. And it leaves you to you know, now what I think is the single biggest question in American politics. Does Paul Manafort have anything on the President of the United States, the President`s son or the President`s son-in-law that he can give up in exchange for a lighter sentence? We don`t know the answer to that question. Bob Mueller may or may not know the answer to that question but that`s surely the one he`s trying to answer.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I want to broaden the topic here about the decision making of Paul Manafort, Natasha, which is this question of does he plead guilty or not. And again, innocent until proven guilty, these are just charges. It doesn`t mean that he is guilty of them. There`s a lot of evidence stacked up against him. Oleg Deripaska one of the oligarchs to whom he owed money, who is sued by this. This is him, Paul Manafort saying in an e-mail to an associate when he got the job, “I assume you`ve shown our friends my media coverage, right? Paul Manafort wrote being like has Oleg Deripaska seen this?
Absolutely, how do we use to get whole? Manafort asked, has OVD operation seen? The reason I bring this up, Natasha, is that there may be people other than Donald Trump or Robert Mueller that Paul Manafort is very worried about crossing were he to turn state`s evidence.
Name: BERTRAND ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right. And this is part of the reason why it`s going to be so incredibly difficult for Manafort to prove his innocence is that there`s such a large and wide paper trail that he seems to have left along with – along with Rick Gates about all of his interactions with people like Oleg Deripaska for example which was going on during the Presidential Campaign. It`s also important to remember that Paul Manafort made his living representing Russian interests, pro-Russian interests in Ukraine for well over a decade before he joined the Trump campaign. His job was to promote Russian interests globally especially in the United States.
And he was doing that as recently as 2014 after Yanukovych was ousted as president. He went back to Ukraine and his goal and his project was to essentially revamp the party and rebrand the party that had been ousted in popular uprisings essentially to again, push pro-Russian interests in Ukraine and around the world. So the fact he then went to the Trump campaign and you know, was working for free and telling Oleg Deripaska and perhaps people like him and being still in touch with people like Konstantin Kilimnik, whose the Ukrainian-Russian operative that he worked with for so long, telling them that he would be willing to provide them with briefings, that he was still in contact with them really raises questions about well, he promising them these things in exchange for something else, in exchange for access or in exchange for debt relief.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Matt, there are a lot of people around the President who are either facing felony charges or have pleaded guilty to felonies. What do you think they`re thinking about this at the Justice Department right now?
Name: MILLER ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Do you mean at the Justice Department in Bob Mueller`s office or say you know, elsewhere in the Justice Department, the A.G. –
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I mean – I mean, Rosenstein and the career folks in that department.
Name: MILLER ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You know, Rod Rosenstein obviously is dialed into this investigation as supervising it and I believe knows exactly where it`s going. You know, you saw a report that Rod Rosenstein briefed the White House on Jared Kushner`s security clearance and why the FBI can`t move on that and it has to be related to this investigation. But I think what you see from the career ranks of the department is you know, the rule of law winning out. There was a time, we talked about it on this show back last in you know, last May where it wasn`t clear where this was going to go. The night that Donald Trump Jim Comey, it was unclear whether he was going to get the Justice Department he wanted that would cave for him and do what he wanted. And so far, the answer to that has not been in his favor. We`ve seen charges and charges against his aides and it`s clear we`re nowhere near the end.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It is really astounding what we`re witnessing. It is amazing what we`re witnessing in so many ways. Natasha Bertrand and Matt Miller, thank you, both.
Name: BERTRAND ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank, Chris.
Name: MILLER ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  For more on what Robert Mueller will do now, he has another cooperating witness. Let`s turn to Jill Wine-Banks, Nick Akerman, both former Watergate Prosecutors, now both MSNBC Legal Analyst. Nick, I want to start with you with a really remarkable fact. Gates comes in for his proffer –
Name: NICK AKERMAN ( MSNBC LEGAL ANALYST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  – Which is February first. Yes, what is a proffer?
Name: AKERMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  A proffer is simply going into the prosecutors, sometimes called a queen for a day where what you say won`t be used against you but the idea is to convince the prosecutors that you`re going to be telling the truth and that you`ll make a valuable government witness. So they would want to enter into a deal with you.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And he lies.
Name: AKERMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And he lied. Exactly.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And they – one of the things he pled to, one of the two crimes (INAUDIBLE) was lying in the proffer that he`s supposed to go in and tell the truth.
Name: AKERMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What`s most –
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Does that happen?
Name: AKERMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  oh, all the time.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Really?
Name: AKEMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Oh, sure. Because a lot of times people they hold back, they don`t tell you everything. But what`s really remarkable –
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s like part you – things like hey, you got (INAUDIBLE) do your thing, dude. No, that`s not how that works.
Name: AKERMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, that`s not how it works because it takes – it takes time to get people to realize that telling the truth is the key to this cooperation agreement and what`s amazing here is that the next day, February 2nd is the day that they actually filed the information on Gates, the one that he pled guilty to today.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So he comes and tells them, and the next day they`re like, dude, you lied. We`ll charge you with that.
Name: AKERMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s – well, they not only charged him, but he agreed to cooperate at that point. Otherwise, they wouldn`t have filed an information.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Oh, so that happens right away. Like –
Name: AKERMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  This happened right away. This could have been an all-nighter for all we know where they just hammered away at him, impressed upon the importance of having to tell the truth and that the only way he could get into trouble was to lie. And to impress that point, they must have come out with all kinds of other information. And that is why this is so remarkable that this was turned around in 24 hours.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Jill, what – there is a lot of money sloshing around in these charging documents with Manafort. It almost sort of boggles the mind what he was dealing with.
Name: JILL WINE-BANKS ( MSNBC LEGAL ANALYST) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It is amazing how much money and it`s particularly surprising because one of the complaints that Gates has had is that he doesn`t have the money to defend himself. So this idea that he doesn`t have money when they were purloining millions and tens of millions of dollars and not reporting it for tax purposes and putting it into foreign bank accounts makes me very suspicious about what was going on why he can`t afford it. And –
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Meaning what? Meaning where did the money go?
Name: BANKS ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Where did the money go? We know some of it went to pay for foreign government officials to help Ukraine, but you know, this was Donald Trump`s red line. You couldn`t cross the red line of looking at finances. And I`ve been saying from the very beginning of this, follow the money because that`s where we`re going to get people. And it certainly is what did it in Manafort and Gates.
Name: AKERMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I`d even go further. The one who really lost out today is Donald Trump. Mr. gAtes is facing 57 months top 60 – and it`s almost five to six years basically in prison time. He is not going to get that much cooperation credit just for testifying against Manafort where they pretty much got a slam-dunk case. He has got to be cooperating on people far beyond Manafort and has to have information that is much more valuable that his defense lawyer felt comfortable enough to let him enter into this cooperation agreement where he has that much exposure to prison time.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Just explain that. Jill, go ahead.
Name: BANKS ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, what I was going to say is that the noose is tightening, the pieces of the puzzle are all coming together. I would say that we have Jared Kushner in extreme risk right now.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: BANKS ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Remember that Manafort was in the meetings with him and Gates could be the thing that pressures Manafort to finally talk. But we also have to keep in mind that Gates was around after Manafort was booted out of the campaign. So he was there all the way through the transition.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: BANKS ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  And he knows things that Manafort even doesn`t know. So he could be a very compelling witness. He has been hurt as a witness, let`s not forget, he`s pleading guilty to being a liar.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right.
Name: BANKS ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  So that is one of the things that will undermine him as a witness. Also, if you read carefully what has been said in the court documents, it says that he did these things on the orders of Manafort. But it doesn`t say that Manafort did these things. And so Manafort now has the ability to say, well, he`s lying now. I didn`t tell him to do that. So we have to be you know, careful in how excited we are about what this means. But it does mean something because Mueller is not giving away the shop for this.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I don`t get excited or not excited Jill. I mean, I`m interested in justice and truth. That`s all I got. I`m a neutral witness to this whole thing, as it unfolds, history before our eyes. But here`s the other part of this. I mean, with the proffer and the kind of getting slapped with that right away, that what we saw with this random Skadden lawyer, right, thi Skadden lawyer is going around. Maybe he`s doing a little you know –
Name: AKERMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s two weeks after the information is filed on Gates.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So the point is like, he has sent everyone the message, and this is to Jill`s point about Kushner, Jared Kushner, if you lie, if you lie on a for, if you don`t file a form, if you lie to me about anything, we will charge you. That now hangs over everyone who has interacted.
Name: AKERMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right, but he`s charging people who have information on the inner circle. That`s the key. I mean, Van Der Zwaan is somebody who pleads to a lie on a conversation in September of 2016 right in the middle of the campaign and they don`t give you any of the details in the information.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Let me add one more thing just so folks know. The lie that Gates told was about a meeting in 2013 with an American Congressman since confirmed by NBC to be Dana Rohrabacher, often known as the Kremlin (INAUDIBLE) congressman, about whether Ukraine came up in a meeting between Dana Rohrabacher, Rick Gates and Paul Manafort. We don`t know why that lie is material but we know that is the lie that he pled guilty to and he is now facing prison time over. Jill Wine-Banks and Nick Akerman, thanks for being here.
Name: AKERMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Next, a look deep inside the alleged criminal enterprise that Manafort and Gates are involved with whose massive piles of money, are they reportedly laundering and what does the President have to do with it all? That story in two minutes.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  With this new indictments by Special Counsel Robert Mueller on dozens of charges of money laundering and bank fraud, we`re discovering that Paul Manafort and Rick Gates were engaged in alleged criminal acts according to the indictment between, this is key, approximately 2015 and at least until January of 2017. Why does that matter? Well, in other words, while both Manafort and Gates were on the Trump campaign working closely with the man who would become the President of the United States, the most powerful person in the world and while Gates was part of the transition team for said incoming president, they were both allegedly involved in a very lucrative international criminal conspiracy.
In total, $75 million alleged to have flowed through the defendants` accounts and Manafort with Gates` help is alleged to have laundered more than $30 million in undisclosed income. All of this raises the question. What exactly is going on at the heart of this alleged criminal enterprise? Joining me now to talk about it Nick Confessore, MSNBC Contributor, a Reporter for the New York Times who last year wrote a fantastic piece that at the time I don`t think I recognized the import of what now do, called How the Russia Investigation Entangled Rick Gates, a Manafort Protege. I remember thinking at that time, Rick Gates. What is that guy after?
Name: NICK CONFESSORE ( MSNBC CONTRIBUTOR) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Who`s that guy?
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Who is Rick Gates? So here`s the thing. These guys are here. They`re in America, they`ve going back to Ukraine. There`s money coming from somewhere. It`s not their money, right? That seems pretty clear. It`s like flowing through them. They`re the conduit for money that`s like coming from somewhere and being put into all these different vehicles to essentially launder it, to turn it from dirty money into possibly clean money, right?
Name: CONFESSORE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Right.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Where`s the money – what are they doing? Whose errands are they running?
Name: CONFESSORE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  All right, so the main errands they are running are the errands of pro-Putin oligarchs in the Ukraine. And the goal is basically to get Ukraine in kind of blessed in the West, to get them into the E.U., to head off investigations in the U.S. and trouble diplomatically. So, OK, so they`re paying off American lobbyists to lobby on their behalf in Washington. They`re paying off an unknown group of ex-European politicians to lobby both in Washington and in Europe and they`re raking a lot of the money off top for themselves in what is really a classic like a master class in how rich people make money overseas and don`t report it to the IRS and still live off it at home.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK, now, one of the questions over this is they`re this sort of conduit from all this money from rich people like Oleg Deripaska, right, pro-Putin oligarch. Like, maybe they`re taking more for themselves, maybe they`re taking a little more than they should be because Oleg Deripaska at a certain point sues Manafort for $60 million, right? Drops the suit. Later in Cyprus filing that he Owes Oleg Deripaska, like it seems to me at a certain point, Paul Manafort owed extremely wealthy powerful and very ruthless people millions of dollars.
Name: CONFESSORE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Which gets back to your timeline at the start of the segment, right? So as of 2015, 2017, this guy is in many large let`s say, right, to Deripaska, to a powerful and dangerous oligarch, right? So how does he repay him? This guy is trying to recoup his money.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Deripaska.
Name: CONFESSORE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, and he can`t find Gates and Manafort. He`s like, where are they? I can`t track them down. And all of a sudden they pop up running a major party presidential campaign that becomes the nominee. And of course, we later learn that since then, there were e-mails being exchanged by Manafort and some folks around him saying can we use my new position to get whole? Which seems like it might be a reference back to Deripaska and trying to make right what we`re speculating here is some kind of a debt or thing he owed to Deripaska.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So I just want people to think of the circumstantial case here. I don`t want to connect any dots but the Russian government and Putin are attempting to influence the American election. That`s quite clear and I think pretty clearly established.
Name: CONFESSORE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s happening. At the same time, a man who is massively in debt to pro-Putin oligarchs who he`s worked with for decades, and knows who he`s connected to just finds his way to be the campaign chairman for the Trump campaign. At the same time that e-mails are being released around the same time e-mails are released that hurt Hillary Clinton and stir up anger with to Bernie Sanders folks because of the DNC. Like it`s a lot of stuff.
Name: CONFESSORE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And the RNC is changing its platform in favor of the Russian movement in Ukraine. So a lot is going on. And if we just step back for a second, Chris, people say, well, who can prove collusion? I mean, if you just take a step back here, here you have this freaking international man of mystery who is running the eventual nominee of the Republican Party and is in hoc to a pro-Putin oligarch and Putin at this time is trying to hack the election in various ways through intermediaries. It is all right there in front of us.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I also want to say that like people that cross Putin and Russian oligarchs have ended up dead often. This is not conspiracy. I mean, we know it. Journalists, oligarchs that turned against him, the political foes and foreign countries drinking polonium, like the stakes are high for all involved I think it`s fair to say.
Name: CONFESSORE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s correct. And look, you know, up until now, he didn`t have much reason to worry because he had in fact delivered in a lot of ways or at least the campaign had worked in a lot of ways. But now that the pressure`s on Manafort, if Manafort ever decides to flip, that is a really dangerous area for him and for everybody else around him.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Nick Confessore, thanks for joining us. Coming up, the teenagers standing up to the NRA and the growing list of corporations that are following their lead. The exodus from the NRA ahead.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: DELANEY TARR ( STUDENT, MARJORY STONEMAN DOUGLASS HIGH SCHOOL) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We didn`t fail. The people around us failed us. And if they continue to fail us, then they will no longer be in office because soon we will be given the ability to vote and we will vote them out and the people around us will vote them out. If you supported us, you would have made a change long ago and you would be making change now. So this is to every lawmaker out there. No longer can you take money from the NRA, no longer can you fly under the radar doing whatever it is you want to do.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The Never Again Movement begun by students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida after the murder of 17 people there has not just set its sight on lawmakers. A national call to the boycott the National Riffle Association is already showing results. More than half a dozen companies have business ties with the NRA and that includes rental companies and enterprise which owns Alamo National Car Rental which had offered discounts to NRA members.
Similar deals were ended by MetLife and First National Bank of Omaha which had offered an NRA visa card, Symantec Cyber Security, and Chubb Insurance Company also end its ties with the NRA. Wyndham Worldwide said it ended its relationship with the NRA late last year. The boycott NRA hashtag has circulated widely on social media since last Wednesday shooting. Today there was actual movement on legislative front that came from a Republican governor who is known for his aggressively pro-NRA positions. That plus Delaney Tarr of Stoneman Douglas High School and Governor Dannel Malloy, the states for gun safety next
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Today, Florida Governor Rick Scott, long a staunch supporter of the National Rifle Association, threw his support behind a proposal to raise the age to buy a firearm of any kind in Florida. It would set the minimum age at 21, raising it from 18, and it is openly opposed by the NRA.
Governor Scott says he will work with the state legislature before its current session ends in two weeks to pass that as well as other measures like a ban on bump stocks and a process for authorities to more effectively share information about students and adults who who could pose a security risk. The measures still fall far short of what many students have called for.
For more on what this Never Again movement has accomplished after just nine days, I want to turn to Delaney Tarr, a student at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, who has spoken to state legislators in Tallahassee and who rearranged her baby-sitting schedule to join us tonight for which I am appreciative. And Governor Dannel Malloy of Connecticut, the co-founder of the States for Gun Safety Coalition.
Delaney, let me start with you. There`s some news today about sheriff`s deputies arriving at the scene in the wake of the shooting and not entering. It`s a little unclear what happened, but maybe as many as three of them who did not go in. There`s the school resource officer who didn`t engage. And there are a lot of people making the argument that this shows this was a failure of law enforcement and the family on guns, and access to guns is misplaced.
And I wanted your reaction to that.
Name: DELANEY TARR ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  STONEMAN DOUGLAS HIGH SCHOOL: well, it is somewhat disheartening to see another situation in which things went wrong. Ultimately, I feel that focusing so much on every other failure besides the main issue here, the gun issue, it almost uses a scapegoat so that we don`t have to have that conversation about common sense gun reform because he`s a person, too. And using him as a scapegoat seems almost unfair in a way.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Huh. That`s really interesting to come from you because there`s lots of condemnation being hurled at this individual from people that weren`t there. You, of course, were. That`s how you feel.
Name: TARR ; Gender: male ; Race:  nativeamerican,caucasian ; Dialogue:  I actually did discuss with my one of my teachers recently this morning actually. And we talked about how we sometimes forget that the people in these situations, the good guys with the guns, they are humans. And I think him running into that building, he would have ultimately, he would have probably died. And I think that is probably a thing that we have to take into consideration.
I`m by no means forgiving him. But it is something to consider in a situation like this.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Governor, Rick Scott and the Florida legislature who Delaney has been lobbying and talking to made a real big break today. What do you make of that?
Name: DANNEL MALLOY ( CO-FOUNDER, STATES FOR GUN SAFETY COALITION) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Long overdue. The reality is we had another tragic mass killing in Florida not so long ago in Orlando, a place that I have visited. Where was the reaction to that? You know, I understand the governor has his own political agenda, one of which is to probably become a United States Senator, a body of people who will not vote for universal background checks. We have a body of people in the United States Senate where well over a majority have been bought and owned by the NRA. He wants to join that body. And quite frankly, where he`s going isn`t that very far. I mean, how many people have to die as a result of a weapon that up until relatively recently could not be sold in the United States? How many teenagers have to buy those? Quite frankly, how many mentally ill people have to buy those guns and kill scores of other of our fellow human beings in this country before we wake up to changing our culture?
By the way, on changing our culture, this is what those wonderful students are doing. There`s a great difference between the young people we lost at Sandy Hook and the young people who experienced this death in their presence. And this is an unbelievably powerful movement about changing our culture. We should not be about killing one another. We should not be you know, distributing these weapons the way we do.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, Delaney, let me ask you that. You are able to sort of speak for yourself and speak to your own experience. One of those interactions, when you`re in Tallahassee and you`re talking to lawmakers about this issue, what are those interactions like?
Name: TARR ; Gender: male ; Race:  nativeamerican,caucasian ; Dialogue:  The interactions, honestly, there was some variations, because in the beginning we were having a very hard time actually getting to communicate with a legislator. But once we started getting to meet with them, they were relatively helpful. They told us – they gave us a sense of reality. They told us the things that we needed to do, the things that we were doing that we could have probably improved upon. They told us the things that we had facing us in these coming days and weeks and months.
And ultimately, getting all of that advice did help us. But we still know, and we have realized since then, that this is a student-led movement. This is about the teens of America coming together for this. And this is not necessarily about us being controlled or dominated by the politicians.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Did they – did they – when they`re giving you advice, I mean, do you think you were going to get yeses on something concrete from them?
Name: TARR ; Gender: male ; Race:  nativeamerican,caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think that`s something that is well-known about many politicians is that it`s very hard to get a yes or no answer out of them. And that is not meant to offend, that is just a statement that is true.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That happens every night on this program failing to get those.
Name: TARR ; Gender: male ; Race:  nativeamerican,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes.
And we didn`t really get many yes or no answers when we were directly asking them questions. It wasn`t necessarily anything helpful that we were receiving. We were receiving a lot of you are so strong, as I said in my speech. And it does get a little bit frustrating to hear all of that.
But having these one-on-one meetings with them, with people that were willing to actually converse with us and tell us their emotions and their feelings behind closed doors where there wasn`t everyone watching or listening in, it was definitely beneficial to a degree.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Governor, do you think there`s – this can be sustained, what we`re seeing right now?
Name: MALLOY ; Gender: male ; Race:  african,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Oh, I do. You know, listen, 25 percent of all high school students will vote in the next election. I mean, that happens year after year after year. I think this is a monumental change in America. And I use the word culture. I mean, we are a gun and violence culture. And we need to get away from that. I mean, the idea that European nations allow anyone from America to go to their country given our history of this kind of violence is really quite remarkable, particularly when you think of how our president refers to other societies and other cultures.
But this is a movement that is crystallized in this particular situation because of the horrific nature, because quite frankly, the ubiquitous nature of recording devices that actually tell the story and because this young man, as troubled as he was, could walk into a store, buy a weapon, the likes of which he used on his former school mates and destroy so many lives.
We`ve got to change. And I think there is a movement about it and quite frankly these wonderful students are a gigantic part after that. I think they`ll sustain it.
But, you know, another factor is, this thing follows what happened in Las Vegas in a relatively short period of time where 90 bullets were coming down by a single gun in ten seconds time increments. We`ve got stop selling the bump stocks. You can`t – you shouldn`t be able to alter one of these instruments. You shouldn`t be able to buy one of these instruments now that we know how lethally they can be applied in a church in, in a movie, in a grammar school, in a high school. We`ve got to make some big, big changes.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  All right, Governor Daniel Malloy and Delaney Tarr, as a father of young kids who is always looking for a babysitter, I want to thank you and whoever got out of the babysitting gig, as well. I want to thank them for making you available tonight. Thank you so much.
Ahead, whenever the president talks about immigration, he almost always brings up MS-13. So, Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Trymaine Lee went to a community that knows all about it firsthand. His special report, exclusive here on All-In, coming up. Plus, tonight`s Thing one, Thing Two right after this.
Name: (COMMERCIAL BREAK)HAYES ; Gender: N.A ; Race: N.A ; Dialogue:  Thing One tonight, another installment of Donald Trump`s quote “best people.”
Among the extraordinarily unqualified people nominated for key posts, Trump`s pick for the top White House environmental post, who couldn`t answer basic questions about science or climate, she withdrew after being twice nominated by the White House for confirmation or the two judicial nominees forced to withdraw each chosen for lifetime appointments on the federal bench while neither had ever tried a case.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Have you ever tried a jury trial.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I have not.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Civil.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Criminal?
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Bench?
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  State or federal court?
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I have not.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Have you ever taken a deposition by yourself?
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I believe no.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK.
Have you ever argued a motion in state court?
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I have not.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Have you ever argued a motion in federal court?
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No.
(END IVDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s the silences and the by yourself that really, really bite there.
Well, we have another spectacular flameout. And that is Thing Two in 60 seconds.
Name: (COMMERCIAL BREAK)HAYES ; Gender: N.A ; Race: N.A ; Dialogue:  So the Indian Health Services, part of HHS, provides health care for more than 2 million Native Americans and Trump nominated this guy, Robert Weaver, to lead that agency. And the official White House announcement last October, they touted Weaver`s, quote, “nearly two decades of experience in hospital, mental health administration and entrepreneurship.” Weaver reportedly cited his hospital leadership roles in the statement to the Senate.
The Wall Street Journal went ahead and contacted the hospital where he worked for seven years. And I`m going to quote here,-time employees in those departments said they didn`t remember him.” Supervisors told the journal he held a series of low level jobs as a patient registration clerk.
A clerk who President Trump selected to run a $6 billion federal health agency. Four months after Robert Weaver was selected, HHS has now confirmed he`s withdrawn his nomination.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  If you are listening to the sound of my voice right now, you must be doing one of four things: you are either watching live on TV right now on this Friday night, or watching it later on DVR, or on our Facebook page or listening to us on Sirius XM radio or you might be listening to to our podcast. If you haven`t already heard, All In is now available as a podcast. You can listen to this whole show for free anytime, my voice in your ears. Find it wherever you get your podcasts. It`s posted every night shortly after the show. If you`re listening to the podcast right now, you already know all this. Hello podcast listeners.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  In a long, often rambling, speech to CPAC today, the president delivered a truckload of red meat and made sure to mention a group he frequently targets to push his immigration restriction policies.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I`ll tell you what, when you deal with MS-13, the only thing they understand is toughness. They don`t like guns. You know why? They aren`t painful enough. These are animals. They cut people. They cut them. They cut them up in little pieces and they want them to suffer and we take them into our country because our immigration laws are so bad.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The president and his administration have made a point of bringing up MS-13 again and again and again.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  MS-13, the cartel, has spread gruesome bloodshed throughout the United States.
This MS-13, somebody said they are the equivalent of al Qaeda.
Name: JOHN KELLY ( CHIEF OF STAFF) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They they ugly without laws, conscience or respect for human life.
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They are animals. What they do is horrible.
Name: JEFF SESSIONS ( ATTORNEY GENERAL) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  MS-13 members brutally rape, rob, extort and murder.
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They have transformed peaceful parks and beautiful quiet neighborhoods into blood-stained killing fields.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Al Qaeda, killing fields. This is the kind of rhetoric.
Last year, both Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions traveled to spotlight MS-13 violence there. And the president invited the parents of two Long Island girls killed by the gang to the State of the Union Address last month where he used those murders to call for new anti-immigrant policy.
As the president has repeatedly invoked MS-13 for his own political ends, communities like Suffolk County on Long Island have been dealing with the repercussions of the gang`s violence and the impact of the Trump administration`s rhetoric. Trymaine Lee traveled there to bring us this story.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
Name: TRYMAINE LEE ( MSNBC) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What is the truth here on Long Island?
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  the truth here on long island is that they have a significant presence. they have a footprint here. They have, especially in the past couple of years, exposed themselves as an extremely violent gang. They`re a gang to be reckoned with, even by the other street gangs.
Name: LEE ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  50 miles east of New York City in Suffolk County, Long Island, MS-13 gained astronghold in this vibrant but marginalized Central America community.
Name: GERARD GIGANTE ( CHIEF OF DETECTIVES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  MS-13 is – it`s still a small population of the community. We`re talking hundreds, we`re not talking thousands. Suffolk County has 1.5 million people in it. So, we`re talking a small percentage of the people.
Name: LEE ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  Chief of Detective Gerard Gigante has been with the Suffolk County police for over three decades. His department investigated at least 17 murders by MS-13 in the past two years.
Name: GIGANTE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s a disproportionate amount of the murders. And they`re extremely violent murders, mostly all machete attacks, some by handgun, but most all violent machete attacks by multiple members of the gang.
Name: LEE ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  The gangs` brutality is used by the president of the United States to push hard line immigration policies.
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  These are animals. They cut people. They cut them. They cut them up in little pieces.
Name: DANIEL DENVIR ( IMMIGRATION JOURNALIST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What Trump is trying to do is make MNS-13 the face, not only of Salvadorian immigrants, but of Latin American immigrants, and arguablyimmigrants as a whole.
What he wants to do is change the public face of the immigrant from the sympathetic dreamer to the terrifying MS-13 member with face tattoos who are brutally killing people with machetes.
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Daniel Denvir has been reporting on immigration issues for the past decade.
And how did we get here, Daniel?
Name: DENVIR ; Gender: male ; Race:  latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  President Trump talks about MS-13 as though it`s some other country`s problem invading our country, when in fact, MS-13 is an American made problem through and through on multiple levels.
Name: LEE ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  MS-13 was born on American soil and grown by American foreign policy. It emerged in the 1980s when refugees fleeing a U.S.-backed refugees landed on the streets of Los Angeles.
Name: DENVIR ; Gender: male ; Race:  latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  And then in the 1990s, under Bill Clinton, when there was a wave of deportations, some of those gang members were sent back to Central America and took what was a local Los Angeles gang and helped make it into a transnational criminal organization. People might be eager to deport a new generation of Salvadorian alleged gang members back to El Salvador when in fact that will only intensify and worsen the cycle and bring wave of wave of refugees to the United States.
We`re going to keep dealing with this problem again and again.
Name: LEE ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  In Suffolk County, the vast majority of MS-13`s victims, as well as its recruits, are young people with Central American roots.
Name: GIGANTE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Traditionally, gang members are recruited because the gang is a structure. It offers support. It offers protection. It offers like a family common bond community, because they`re from the same background. And I think that`s what draws them in.
And many of the people that we`ve locked up, even for the murders, we found them living in poor conditions, sometimes they`re living on a floor in a garage or a basement or a shed or a shanty in the woods. They are an easy target for the gang to recruit, because they`re promised the support and the money, and, you know, friendship and they join into the clique. That`s a lot of kids that are coming over that have really nowhere to turn. Think about being in another country at 16 years old.
Name: LEE ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  Sergio Argueta (ph) grew up on Long Island, the son of a Salvadoran immigrant. When he was young, he joined the local gang. Now, he runs an organization fighting street violence.
What is it about the soil in this community that makes it so ripe? On one hand, a community victimized by hostile policy, on the other hand you have a gang taht some would frame as among the most vicious in America. What is it about this community?
Name: SERGIO ARGUETA ( FOUNDER, STRONG YOUTH INC) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The soil is ripe because theytransported the soil. The soil is ripe because they water it in terms of inequality, some of the worst performing schools under resourced, highest needs, high poverty rates, individuals that, you know, are clearly living in very difficult circumstances. That`s where gangs are going to prevail.
Name: LEE ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  When you hear the name MS-13 in the mouth of our president, what do you think and feel? What do you think when you hear it mentioned in…
Name: ARGUETA ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  First off, he`s the biggest promoter. I mean, he – they should give him a retainer, MS-13, in terms of promotion and outreach, right? A lot of municipalities and people across this country didn`t know who they were and they are not the biggest gang. And they are not committing the biggest murderers, but thanks to this individual who gave them all the notoriety in the world, when you`re in a gang, you want that reputation. You want to be known worldwide. And this guy made them worldwide.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Trymaine Lee is here with me now. It`s a great piece of reporting.
You know, one thing I thought about is the community that this is all happening in is immigrant communities, folks both legal citizens authorized and unauthorized. You know, what does it mean to them if they can`t trust calling the cops because they are worried about their status?
Name: LEE ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  That`s a big deal. Because as we`ve seen, the president loves a boogeyman, and he found the perfect boogeyman in MS-13. They are legitimately violent, but again they threaten those people in an insular migrant community, right. And so when you have on one side MS-13 and their violence, as limited as it may be, on the other side you have a government dragnet, you know, scooping up sons and daughters and fathers, there is this great fear of deportation, right.
So, the people who have the most information and contact with this very violent gang, are afraid to got talk to the authorities.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  There is also – there has been this sort of crackdown in this area and other areas and talk about sort of finding people`s gang affiliations and I know that can be a hazy term. And you did some reporting on how that looks in the local high school. And what did you find?
Name: LEE ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  Sometimes it`s clear. You know, if you see someone with an MS-13 tattoo on their forehead, that`s one thing. Other than that, it`s kind of dubious, right? 503, the area code in El Salvador, kids scrawl that. That`s a marker for gang affiliation. If they wear a Chicago Bulls shirt, that`s an affiliation. What`s happened is, hundreds of people have been rounded up, among them many teenagers in Brentwood High School, right.
So, kids who have loose at best affiliation or not involved at all, one man said is a pipeline between, you know, school and deportation.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And that reporting is going to be on AM Joy tomorrow.
Name: LEE ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  That`s right. Tomorrow morning.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You did a package on that. That`s going to be on AM Joy. Trymaine Lee, it`s such a great honor to have you as part of this operation, thank you.
Name: LEE ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  latino ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  All right. That does it for us tonight and for this crazy insane week. Another indictment today, the breaking news happening this afternoon, of course, indictments for Paul Manafort, a guilty plea from Rick Gates. That is All In for this evening. The Rachel Maddow Show starts right now. Good evening, Rachel.
###END
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
Copyright 2018 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.>

