Watch Videos
Show: ALL IN with CHRIS HAYESDate: February 26, 2018Guest: Adam Schiff, Jennifer Rodgers, Harry Litman, Jay Inslee, Jess McIntosh, Josh Earnest, Xavier Becerra

###START
Name: CHRIS MATTHEWS ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s HARDBALL for now. Thanks for being with us. “ALL IN” with Chris Hayes starts right now.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: CHRIS HAYES ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Tonight on ALL IN.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  This crew is indicted four people already for lying to them.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  As the President`s lawyers try to keep Trump away from a Mueller interview –
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  For a person that doesn`t use an economy of words like the President, it could be a disaster.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Tonight Congressman Adam Schiff on more guilty pleas. The release of his memo and the collapse of Trump`s plot to stop Mueller.
Then –
Name: JAY INSLEE  ( WASHINGTON) ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,caucasian ; Dialogue:  We need a little less tweeting here, a little more listening.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The governor who confronted the President about arming teachers joins me live.
Name: DONALD TRUMP ( PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You don`t know until you test it but I think – I really believe I would run in there, even if I didn`t have a weapon.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Plus, understanding today`s Supreme Court move on DACA and Ivanka Trump`s defense of the President.
Name: IVANKA TRUMP ( SENIOR ADVISER TO THE PRESIDENT) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think I have that right as a daughter to believe my father.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  When ALL IN starts right now.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Good evening from New York, I`m Chris Hayes. The President`s lawyers appear to be doing whatever they can to prevent their client from lying to Special Counsel Robert Mueller. And that makes sense because after all, just last week, Mueller secured a fourth guilty plea for lying to investigators, this one from the President`s former Deputy Campaign Chairman Rick Gates. And now a person familiar with the thinking of the President`s legal team tells the Wall Street Journal his lawyers are considering ways for the President to testify before Mueller provided the questions he faces are limited in scope and don`t test his recollections in ways they say could unfairly trap him into perjuring himself. That comes three weeks since The New York Times first reported the President`s lawyers had advised him to refuse an interview with Mueller. In the meantime, as negotiations have apparently continued, the stakes have only gotten higher because, over the past few weeks, the Special Counsel has unveiled some very major developments in the Russia probe. First, you`ll recall, the indictments against 13 Russian nationals including a Kremlin-connected oligarch for waging “information warfare” on the 2016 election. Then remember the surprise guilty plea by a Dutch lawyer who no one really heard of who lied to investigators crucially about communications (AUDIO GAP) Manafort pertaining (AUDIO GAP) on behalf of pro-Kremlin interests in Ukraine. And then finely, that man, Gates` (AUDIO GAP) along crucially with an agreement to cooperate fully with Mueller`s investigation. And that was followed by new superseding indictments against Manafort, Gates` one-time business partner and mentor, the former Campaign Chairman to the President of the United States. After Manafort was fired back in August 2016, Rick Gates stayed on the Trump campaign. He was part of the candidate`s traveling entourage right up through Election Day and he went on to take leadership roles on the President`s inaugural committee and of the outside nonprofits started to promote his agenda. And yet as they did after George Papadopoulos pleaded guilty, calling the foreign policy adviser a mere coffee boy on the campaign, the President`s allies are now desperately trying to minimize Gates` role.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: REINCE PRIEBUS ( FORMER CHIEF OF STAFF, WHITE HOUSE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  More logistics, event planning, things that were going on behind the scenes, a lot of the busy work was what Rick I saw did. I wasn`t sure as far as how far into the policy or into the campaigning itself he was involved with. I don`t think he was, actually.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, just the busy work. Just the guy who was the deputy Campaign Chairman and then worked on the inaugural committee and then helped set up the President`s outside group nonprofit. All through that time, that guy just a busy work kind of dude who also happens now to be a felon. This is of course just the latest failing attempt to confuse, distract from and otherwise discredit the Russia investigation, a project that`s taken various different forms over the past several months not just from the President but crucially from Republican in Congress who have been four-square behind him for the most part. The most recently is the so-called Nunes memo, remember that one, cooked up by the House Intelligence Chairman which we were told in a breathless week of insane news coverage would debunk the Russia probe once and for all.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MATT GAETZ  ( FLORIDA) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I will tell you, this Bill, if we get this memo into the public square, heads are going to roll at the FBI and at the Department of Justice.
Name: MARK MEADOWS  ( NORTH CAROLINA) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What part of me wishes that I didn`t read it because I don`t want to believe that those kinds of things could be happening in this country that I call home and love so much.
Name: SEAN HANNITY ( HOST, FOX NEWS CHANNEL) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  These revelations are so profound, this corruption so deep, it is so obvious that the Special Counsel needs to be shut down immediately.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That is how explosive that memo was going to be. Matt Gaetz, Republican Congressman from Florida was going to roll up to the FBI with a four-page memo in one hand and a guillotine in the other so that heads could start rolling. That was about three weeks ago. Over the weekend, Democrats finally released their rebut toll the Nunes memo, remember that one too which got cut up in declassification? It did not make a big splash which is really evidence of how little impact that original memo, the really explosive one made when it was released. Among other points, the Democratic memo refutes the central claim of the Nunes memo that the FBI in its application to surveil Trump Campaign Adviser Carter Page, remember that guy, probably do, that they hid the fact that some of its evidence was a result of political opposition research. That evidence, of course, was the infamous Steele dossier. In fact, that`s not true. The application explicitly noted that the person who hired Steel was “likely looking for information that could be used to discredit candidate number one`s campaign. So there you have it. It`s right there in the application. That did not stop of course the President from declaring victory Saturday night and once again publicly calling on his Attorney General who he sort of weirdly declined to mention by name to investigate his own political opponents.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  A lot of bad things happened on the other side, not on this side, but on the other side.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  And you know what is interesting?
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And somebody should look into it because what they did is really fraudulent and somebody should be looking into that. And by somebody, I`m talking about you know who.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I`m joined now by Congressman Adam Schiff, Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee. The President says there are fraudulent activities on the other side. He appears to be calling for Jeff Sessions I think to investigate his political opponents. What do you make of that?
Name: ADAM SCHIFF  ( RANKING MEMBER, HOUSE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, it`s much the same as what we`ve seen from the President in the past and that is he thinks the Justice Department is his Justice Department to do his will, to investigate his opponents. He doesn`t seem to understand that the Justice Department exists to serve the interests of the public and the interests of justice. It`s not simply his personal law enforcement arm. But I`m glad the Justice Department I think understands their responsibility, even if the President doesn`t.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Your memo came out over the weekend rebutting parts of the Nunes memo, giving sort of a fuller sense of the context for it. And I found it fairly persuasive, although a lot of the facts had already been entered in evidence. I guess my question is given what Mueller has done the last few weeks, does it render the whole thing kind of moot anyway?
Name: SCHIFF ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I think the GOP memo largely discredited itself. But nonetheless, I think it`s important that the American people see the actual facts that were presented to the FISA Court and understand that that the FBI was acting appropriately. It had plenty of good reason to be concerned that Carter Page might be acting as an agent of a foreign power, in this case, Russia. It`s also I think significant that our memo discloses for the first time that the Russians preview to Papadopoulos that they could help with disseminating these stolen e-mails. So weeks later when Don Jr. goes into that meeting when he writes back to those offering dirt on Hillary Clinton, he says if it`s what I think it is, I would love it. And we now know and we can talk publicly about the fact that the campaign, at least George Papadopoulos was aware both that the Russians have these stolen e-mails and that they were prepared to help with the dissemination of those e-mails.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That was one of several things that stuck out to me. Can you speak a little bit more about that? We know there was this sort of cut-out figure that was telling him the Russians have the e-mails. Tell us what did they say further about helping disseminating them?
Name: SCHIFF ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, unfortunately, I can`t go beyond what the Department of Justice has authorized us to disclose in the memo. But I think it`s the first time the public has been able to see one of the links here. And that is we knew from the Papadopoulos plea that the Russians had told the Trump campaign very early on in April of 2016 that they were in possession of these stolen e-mails. We now know that the Department of Justice presented to the FISA Court information that the Russians previewed what they would do with this information, their dissemination of it. So when Donald Trump openly called on the Russians to hack Hillary Clinton`s e-mails and be richly rewarded if they release these to the press, his campaign had already been put on notice that the Russians were prepared to do just that and disseminate these stolen e-mails.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Is your committee still involved in investigative work? You have Hope Hicks coming tomorrow and sometimes it can be a little unclear what is going on in that committee given what Devin Nunes has been up to. Are you still engaged in investigative activity?
Name: SCHIFF ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We are still engaged in investigative activity, although you know, we increasingly have concerns that the Republicans are preparing to shut us down. Some of them have talked publicly about their being under enormous pressure to shut this down. But we are bringing additional witnesses, we do expect to have Hope Hicks in soon. I can`t specify when, but we hope to have her soon. We hope that she is fully forthcoming. There have been other administration witnesses that have testified to their role in the campaign, the role in the transition, the role of the administration. Steve Bannon, however, was under different instructions by the White House. They`re evidently concerned with what he would have to say and he wouldn`t answer whole sets of questions. We hope that Hope Hicks, when she does come in, will be forthcoming. But yes, we continue the make progress, even though it`s difficult, and even though the Chairman continues to want the committee to focus on this attack on what he believes is the deep state.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I feel like Hope Hicks` determination about what she will or will not answer will partly be informed by what happens to Bannon. Has there been any further action after he essentially claimed this very expansive privilege in front of your committee?
Name: SCHIFF ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  There has not and we have pressed the majority. Look, you said you were going to force them, you said you were going consider you know, contempt if he didn`t answer these questions. He didn`t answer them. And you acknowledge that if we allowed no for an answer, we would effectively undermine our investigation and other committees` investigations as well. But that`s the position we`re in. We`re still calling on them, and they`re still not answering. We also need to subpoena Corey Lewandowski who gave no explanation except he wasn`t prepared to answer full sets of questions. He needs a subpoena, and it should be made abundantly clear that if Hope Hicks or anyone else comes in and they improperly claim executive privilege or just refuse to answer questions without a privilege that they`ll get a subpoena, and that we`re prepared to go to court and insist on getting answers.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Final question. Are you surprised as everyone else seems to be by the news that comes out of the Mueller investigation?
Name: SCHIFF ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You know, I`m not surprised really that Bob Mueller is doing this in as methodical way as he is. I will say one thing I found striking about the indictment of these 13 Russians aside from the fact of its extraordinary detail and that is what is not included in the indictment, and that is the whole Russian hacking of these documents, the dumping of this information was not a part of that indictment. Now there is ample evidence for Bob Mueller to have included it. I can only conclude from the fact it was left out that Bob Mueller wants that to be part of a separate indictment. And the key question there is, is that going to involve Russian figures alone or are they going to be U.S. persons implicated as well?
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s the question that is on a lot of our minds. Congressman Adam Schiff, thanks for your time tonight.
Name: SCHIFF ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  For more on the latest in the Russia probe, let`s bring in former Federal Prosecutors Jennifer Rodgers and former Federal Prosecutor Harry Litman. Let me start with you. That point about Papadopoulos and the e-mails and the previewing that happens that maybe we can disseminate them, and the timing that now starts to be looking squarely in that summer where we don`t have a lot of stuff coming from Mueller about what happened that summer, but that`s the key period. It does seem like we`re moving into a -- we`re moving through an investigation into a zone where like we`re going to find out what happened.
Name: JENNIFER RODGERS ( FORMER FEDERAL PROSECUTOR) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think we are. I think we are in part for the reason you suggest. We`re starting to put pieces together where e-mails from Don Jr. now take on a slightly different meaning maybe when you see you know, what other people potentially were giving to the campaign. I also think that the cooperation of Rick Gates means we`re going get to the bottom of this ultimately because with his high level access, his longevity on the campaign and his knowledge of the Russians and relationships with the Russians, to me I think that if there was coordination that he would have known about it, which means that Bob Mueller knows about it, which means that ultimately I think we will all know about it which is exactly what his job is and exactly what every American should want here.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Harry, I want to – I want to play you Sarah Huckabee Sanders responding today to a question about the President`s judgment surrounding himself with these people. Take a listen.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  I`m wondering what it says in your view about the President`s judgment that three people linked to his campaign have now turned out to be criminals?
Name: SARAH HUCKABEE SANDERS ( PRESS SECRETARY, WHITE HOUSE) ; Gender: N.A ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Look, I think that those are issues that took place long before they were involved with the President and anything beyond that because those are active investigations I`m not going to go any further than that.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  You know Gates served on the campaign?
Name: SANDERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, but the actions that are under review and under investigation took place prior to him being part of the President`s campaign.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Just before I get your reaction, I just want to point out, that`s not true. The most recent set of charging documents describe activities that happened during the campaign and into the transition. But what do you make of that?
Name: HARRY LITMAN ( FORMER FEDERAL PROSECUTOR) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, that`s the first thing I make. You took the words from my mouth that for starters, it`s not true and it`s this very kind of brittle bobbing and weaving that she`s want to do. But the overall refrain, you know, I`m putting mind of the famous Monty Python scene with the black knight aptly named saying a mere flesh wound. You know, Mueller has had a phenomenal record in only nine months and has gotten quite close to the Oval Office, no precedence since Watergate of getting so close to confederates of the president. And they`re either lying about not – about being unafraid that he`s going closer and closer to Trump, or they just don`t know how things work.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Someone compared to it Iran Contra. They said the last time that we had this many people sort of caught up in a presidential scandal was at least Iran Contra. Harry just invoked Watergate. I mean, it is striking even of you bracket this question of collusion, just what we – what we`ve seen so far and people very close to the president and what they have already pleaded to.
Name: RODGERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  nativeamerican,african,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, we`ve seen numerous people very close to the president pleading guilty to not just lying, but substantive offenses. I mean, money laundering, you know, bank fraud, mortgage fraud and there`s more there. I mean, Michael Flynn we knew you know, takes one plea to a false statement but we also know he committed some other offenses at least you know, having to do with his clearances and so on. So there is criminal activity very close to the President. So even if there is no coordination with Russia, we have a real problem here with respect to the people he is choosing.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What do you make of the decisions about whether the President will talk to Mueller at this point, Harry?
Name: LITMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Whether the President – well, it has always been my view that he wants to avoid it like the plague. I mean, the perjury trap idea that his allies are propounding doesn`t make a lot of sense. The reason it`s not a perjury trap is because if he is guilty of obstruction, as he seems to be, it`s not – it`s not a trap. He either has to tell the truth or lie, that those are – those are his choices. But I think that it`s always been the case notwithstanding this bravado on his part how he loved to talk to Mueller and the lawyers being care to feel say we`re going to decide. I think it`s always been the case that it`s something they need to avoid, that the negotiations they`re now undertaking to say it will just – it will be very limited or it may be written questions or things that Mueller can agree to and more likely than not, we`re heading towards a legal battle.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What does that battle look like?
Name: RODGERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  nativeamerican,african,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I think Mueller be forced to issue a subpoena because ultimately –
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You think it will get to that point?
Name: RODGERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  nativeamerican,african,caucasian ; Dialogue:  I do because – well, they could give in, right? They could agree to the testimony but I you know, think they probably won`t. So probably they`ll force a subpoena. If he refuses the subpoena, he is in contempt, and it will go before a judge. There is no good legal reason for him to refuse the subpoena. So to me, ultimately, he does have to testify and he`s just dragging it out.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Jennifer Rodgers and Harry Litman, thank you both.
Name: RODGERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  nativeamerican,african,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: LITMAN ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Next, the very telling moment when Governor Jay Inslee called out President Trump to his face today about arming teachers in the classroom. I will talk to the Governor about Trump`s reaction in two minutes.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I really believe, you don`t know until you test it but I think I really believe I`d run in, even if I didn`t have a weapon. And I think most of the people in this room would have done that too because I know most of you.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  President Trump attacking law enforcement again today, let everyone know just how brave he and those gathered in the room would be in the face of a rampaging gunman. The President made those remarks in front of the bipartisan meeting of governors who convened at the White House today to discuss school safety. One of the people in attendance was Washington Governor Jay Inslee who responded to the President`s plan to add more guns to schools to make them safer.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I do think that there has to some form of major retaliation if they`re able to enter a school. And if that happens, you`re not going to have any problems anymore because they`re never going to the school. You`re not going to have a problem. So it would just be a very small group of people that are very gun adept. Anyway, go ahead, Governor.
Name: INSLEE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  If I may respond to that, let me just suggest whatever percentage is, I heard at one time you might have suggested 20 percent. Whatever percentage it is, speaking as a grandfather, speaking of the Governor of the State of Washington, I have listened to the people who may be affected by that. I have listened to the biology teachers and they don`t want to do that at any percentage. I have listened to the first-grade teachers that don`t want to be pistol-packing first-grade teachers. I have listened to law enforcement who have said they don`t want to have to train teachers as law enforcement agencies which take about six months. Now, I just think this is a circumstance that we need to listen that educators should educate and they should not be foisted upon this responsibility of packing heat in first-grade classes. Now, I understand you have suggested this and we suggest things, and sometimes then we listen to people about it, maybe they don`t look so good a little later. So I just suggest we need a little less tweeting here, a little more listening, and let`s just take that off the table and move forward.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  With me now Governor Jay Inslee, who you saw there. Did you get any response after that?
Name: INSLEE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No. The President called for a helpline and went to the Governor of Texas on this issue. No, it wasn`t – and you know, it was an important dialogue to have. I think it`s important for the President to listen to the voices, and I was speaking for the you know, four or five million teachers in this country that really want to educate kids. And the first-grade teachers that want to educate these kids and care about them rather than carrying a Glock on their – on their hip, and the counselors who want to counsel rather than being involved in this effort.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Do you feel that – do you feel that you can have good faith exchanges in that White House with this President?
Name: INSLEE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think we can have exchanges. It remains to be seen. And I think the difficulty with this particular President –
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But not in good faith?
Name: INSLEE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, is it good faith to say that he has compassion and a big heart in one month for the DREAMers and then tries to throw them out? Is it good faith to say that he wants to make a deal on immigration and then (INAUDIBLE)? Is it good faith to say that he wants to provide health care for all Americans and then actually try to take it away from hundreds of thousands? So no –
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But that`s my point.
Name: INSLEE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s very different.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s my point about these sort of exchanges. We`ve seen a number of them now. We one on DACA, and we saw people sit around and he said whatever you bring me, I`ll sign it. We saw one on guns and we saw this today and I just – I guess, what is your thinking about whether you can take him at his word about whatever is established in those sort of exchanges means anything?
Name: INSLEE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  To take this President at his word, you`ll lose your house, your ranch and everything you`ve ever invested because that`s you know the art of the con is been something he`s perfect over a lifetime and we continue to see it. The DREAMers on this issue, you will – here is how this is going to play out. He has given us some language like this and then he`s given us this giant distraction of this not common sense idea about arming first-grade teachers. It`s more of a distraction. It`s not going to become policy and then nothing will happen in Congress. So this is kind of the art of the con, frankly, of slow, walking this through and then –
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You think that`s what he is doing?
Name: INSLEE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Sure. And telling NRA don`t really worry about this. Nothing is going to happen. And we need action on this. Look, if the President does want to be a hero here, he said he wanted – he could have been a hero and he would have been a hero, he could be now by actually standing up for some common sense measures and that`s what we could use right now.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Your neighboring state Oregon recently strengthened its gun laws. It passed a bill that would essentially take access to guns away from those who are found in violation of domestic violence. What is your state going to do? You now have Democratic control, unified control in that state. You have a much clearer path to get things you want legislatively than you did just five or six weeks ago. What is your plan?
Name: INSLEE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, we`re still – and I told the President this that we now are continuing to enforce our extreme (AUDIO GAP) unique bill that we have (AUDIO GAP) law enforcement officer at the request of family member to take a firearm out of a home of someone who`s a threat to themselves or others. And we`re going to continue to enforce that. We`re going to continue to enforce when we closed our background check by initiative. We`re going to pass a bump stock ban which is headed to my desk. And I hope the legislature will follow my lead in advancing the age. It makes no sense for a person to go out and buy an assault weapon on their 18th birthday. We need to raise that. And there are a few other things we need to do as well. So we`re going to move forward in a common sense way. And by the way, these things have overwhelming support on the public. We have overwhelming support for educators that this is a really, really terrible idea by the President and we have overwhelming support by the public that they want us to take these common-sense measures. This is not a controversial matter.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Let me show you what happened tonight in a rules committee in the state senate in Florida that was considering moving towards a floor vote on an assault weapons ban where it`s voted down. Take a look.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  (AUDIO GAP) we will go to the next – (AUDIO GAP). Excuse me.
Name: AMERICAN CROWD ; Gender: male ; Race:  latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Shame, shame, shame!
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: AMERICAN CROWD ; Gender: male ; Race:  latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Vote them out. Vote them out! Vote them out!
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Excuse me. We will go to the next amendment.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The politics changing on this?
Name: INSLEE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Very much so, very rapidly, in part because of the manifold tragedies with action – without action. And shame is the right thing to do. And I believe this for a long time. Look, I voted for the assault weapon ban in 1994 despite electoral consequences. I believe this and we need to move forward. And this is changing in part because of the voices of these young people. This has captured the hearts of America to see these inspirational kids stand up. And I think it is tipping this in the right direction.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Final question, and it`s somewhat particular to your state but I want to get you on the record since I have you here. Both houses in Washington have fast-tracked a bill that would carve out some exemptions from members of the state legislature from certain parts of the public records act. Reporters, newspapers, a lot of sunlight groups think it`s a bad idea. I want to know what your position on that bill? Are you going to veto it?
Name: INSLEE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think it`s a bad idea. I don`t think it`s necessary. Governors – I`ve learned – I`ve been a legislator and an executive and I know that you can - you can have full disclosure and transparency.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You are going to veto it?
Name: INSLEE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I can`t unfortunately because they have a veto-proof majority, unfortunately. So I don`t have control at this moment. But I have spoken out against it, and I don`t think it`s necessary because you can be a good representative and still be transparent about your communications. I know because I`ve done it as governor and I`m proud. I`ve got probably the most transparent administration in our state`s history and I`m proud of that.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  All right, Governor Jay Inslee, it`s very nice to have you in the studio.
Name: INSLEE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you. You bet.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  How it`s looking more and more like the best qualification to join the Trump administration is just to be a friend of Trump. The job the President is eyeing for his personal pilot, after this.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I have a pilot, he`s a real expert and he said sir, the equipment they`re putting on is just the wrong stuff. My pilot is a smart guy and knows what`s going on. He said the government is using the wrong equipment and instituting a massive multibillion-dollar project, but they`re using the wrong type of equipment.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The President about a year ago in a meeting with aviation executives passing along advice that he got from his personal pilot, a smart guy according to the President who knows what`s going on. The pilot in question is John Dunkin who has reportedly has been Trump`s pilot on and off since 1989 including during the presidential campaign. Now, as Axios reported, Dunkin is on the administration`s short list to head the Federal Aviation Administration and has already had an interview for the job. If he gets the job, Trump`s personal pilot would oversee an agency with a $16 billion budget and more than 47,000 employees. A source told Axios that Dunkin is on the list because he`s the President`s pilot. But if he gets the job, he won`t – it won`t be because he is the President`s pilot. OK, sure. This is not the first time the President has looked to staff the government with people he knows. Whether they be, for instance, the reality show contestant who became a short-lived White House staffer, or the Trump family event planner now in charge of Federal Housing for all of New York.
Then of course there is the first daughter, who is a senior adviser to the president, just led the U.S. delegation at the Winter Olympics, met with South Korea`s leader to brief them about sanctions against North Korea. But when it came to answering a question about whether she believed the women who made allegations of sexual misconduct against her boss, she claimed it was inappropriate to even ask her because her boss is also her dad.
Ivanka`s attempt to have it both ways and the unrivaled nepotism of the Trump White House coming up.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Today the Supreme Court dealt a blow to the president`s plan to end the DACA program, granting a temporary reprieve for recipients, so-called Dreamers. Now the DACA program was set to end next week on March 5th, a deadline set by the president himself last year. But federal judges in both California and New York have each issued injunctions requiring the president to keep the program in place. In an unusual move, the White House then asked the Supreme Court to step in and grant the president permission to just end the program. But, today, the court says the case must first go through an appeals court. They refused to take it, essentially telling the administration it cannot jump the line to get to it the Supreme Court faster.
Now, poll after poll has shown that the majority of Americans oppose deporting nearly 700,000 Dreamers they want DACA recipients to stay. And as protesters have flooded congressional offices, today`s Supreme Court decision means that March 5th deadline, which was bearing down on all these people when the program was supposed to expire, isn`t much of a deadline after all, at least for now.
But here is the thing. It also takes some of the pressure off congress to find an immediate solution, leaving hundreds of thousands of lives in limbo.
Xavier Becerra is the attorney general for the state of California, which is part of the lawsuit challenging Trump`s attempt to end DACA.
Let`s start with the law here, attorney general, because I`m a little confused. It seems clear to me that this was a presidential – this was a sort of presidential memo that created DACA through President Obama that if it could be unilaterally be created it can be uncreated. How is it that you`re in court successfully blocking him from taking this away?
Name: XAVIER BECERRA ( CALIFORNIA ATTORNEY GENERAL) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Chris, I think it`s mostly the fact that when the program was created, it was done through a process, a legal process that had facts behind it and it followed the rules. And what the Trump administration has tried to do is undo that without following the rules and the courts have now sided with us twice, and with the Supreme Court decision it said go through the regular rule process, Donald Trump, in order to make your case.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So that`s interesting. So, President Obama went through a process, came out with, created DACA. And what you`re saying is the Trump administration probably has the power to take it away in the eyes of the courts. The way they have done it, the court is just saying you have done it in a such a kind of sloppy arbitrary fashion, you have to stop?
Name: BECERRA ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, Trump is actually arguing a little bit more, he is saying that the program itself is not lawful. And many of us have argued for the longest time, those of us who helped the president, President Obama, create the program, have said it`s been lawful from the very beginning. And so it`s more than just a process, it`s the actual underlying facts and the substance of the law, we think it`s lawful. And so far, the courts have agreed.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Where does this – do you worry that you have taken away the forcing mechanism to get a congressional deal if now the president seemed to sort of back himself into a corner. He rejected a bunch of different bipartisan solutions. The deadline is bearing down on him. Now the deadline goes away. And where are we?
Name: BECERRA ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Actually, I believe this gives proponents of a DACA fix the leverage, because Republicans and the president were talking about extorting a lot of things that were really bad.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Ah, interesting.
Name: BECERRA ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  …for immigration in order to get DACA fixed so that these kids wouldn`t be deported. There is less fear today that March 5 anyone will be deported, in fact on March 5, I`ll be telling a lot of young DACA recipients renew your status for another two years under DACA. And so this gives us a chance to get a good solution. The president says he is for DACA, Republicans in congress say they`re for DACA, Democrats say they`re for DACA. Let`s get that done. Everyone agrees with that.
The other things that are more contentious, worry about that later. Get the things you can done.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So what – if I understand you`re saying is, this was a kind of hostage situation. They essentially took these hostages. The DACA recipients, they said it is going to go away. And Democrats you better act unless you see these people that you care about and want to protect be subject to deportation and you are coming in with the other – and say, no, federal courts have enjoined you, so you don`t have that leverage anymore?
Name: BECERRA ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s right. If you don`t act now, Democrats, you won`t have anything and DACA recipients will get deported. That`s not the case. We don`t have to accept things that are truly egregious, have nothing to do with fixing our broken immigration system, in order to get DACA relief. And so focus on now getting DACA relief. Test the president. If he is serious that he wants to get DACA done, test Republicans. If they`re serious they want to get DACA done, then let`s do it.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What`s the timeline look like now?
Name: BECERRA ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, if we go through the regular rule process and not try to circumvent it the way the president has tried to do on several occasions, we`re probably looking at a lawsuit that will run itself over a course of another months if not another year, perhaps more.
If the president continues to try to appeal every time that they lose, it could take longer. And so I`m just telling most DACA recipients, don`t worry what Donald Trump says, let`s worry what we do. Reapply.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I just want to be clear that I understand this because DACA can be a little confusing, particularly people that aren`t recipients themselves. When you say reapply, there are people who are coming up on the expiration.
Name: BECERRA ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s correct.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The idea was after March 5, if your status expired, you were going into out of status, which would make you subject to deportation. That`s no longer the case. After March 5, on March 6, on March 7, on March 8, if you`ve expired, you can go in and you can re-up for two more years, right?
Name: BECERRA ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s correct. That lets you have your status where ICE will not go out there and try to deport you. You have your authorization to continue to work, in many cases continue your education. And so people should reapply.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Final question, should they trust the government with their information given what this government has done to folks that are undocumented?
Name: BECERRA ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Chris, that`s the key point here is can we trust our institutions of government to doright by us, or will they betray us? And that`s what this case is really about. Those who came forward, presented themselves, put themselves in harm`s way, will the government now betray them? I hope not. I don`t believe so.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Xavier Becerra, thanks for your time.
Name: BECERRA ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Coming up, the White House senior adviser who doesn`t believe all those women who accused the president of sexual misconduct because, well, it`s her dad.
And translating the president`s Twitter feed in tonight`s Thing One, Thing Two next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We know that President Trump, when he is not golfing on the weekends, likes to get a good dose of executive time watching Fox News. On Saturday night alone, he tweeted @Foxnews three times, including a promotion of his upcoming phone interview with Jeanine Pirro, which he then retweeted soon his phoner was over.
Trump likes to stay on brand with the fine folks at Trump TV, and this is one of the president`s tweets as he reacted to the Democratic memo being released. Congressman Schiff omitted and distorted key facts @foxnews. So what else is new? He is a total phony.
Look carefully. That tweet appears to say that Fox News is reporting, you see those quotation marks there, that Congressman Adam Schiff omitted and distorted key facts. It turns out that is not at all what Fox News reported. This time the blame does not lie with Fox News. What happens when you take Fox News and run it through president`s Twitter feed is Thing Two in 60 seconds.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So Saturday night, President Trump gleefully tweeted out a quote from Fox News about Congressman Adam Schiff. Congressman Schiff omitted and distorted key facts at Fox News. But this is what the president appears to have seen less than an hour earlier on Fox News.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: MOLLY LINE ( FOX NEWS ANCHOR) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Congressman Schiff, he argues the Republican memo omitted and distorted key facts, that it was initially meant to mislead the public.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  OK. That is what Fox News Anchor Molly Line actually said. In fact, she was quoting portions of Schiff`s own tweet, quote, “some time ago Republicans on our committee released a declassified memo that omitted and distorted key facts in order to mislead the public.”
But let`s just look how the Fox anchor`s line was reproduced by Trump to be exactly the opposite thing. Trump removes the key context “Schiff argues the Republican memo omitted and distorted key facts.” Without those words in the middle, you arrive at Trump`s wildly out of context tweet. See what he did there?
Trump literally omitted key words and distorted the facts, Even for a president who, according to The Washington Post, has made more than 2,000 false or misleading claims over 355 days, that is a particularly flagrant use of executive time.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: TRUMP ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Ivanka, by the way, gets paid zero. She gave up a very good and very strong, solid big business in order to come to Washington, because she wanted to help families and she wanted to help women. She said, dad, I want to go to Washington. I want to help women. And I said Washington`s a mean place. She said I don`t care. I want to help women. I want to help families.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That was President Trump on Friday talking about his daughter, a White House senior adviser who led the U.S. delegation at the Olympics where she briefed the president in South Korea on economic sanctions against North Korea.
On Friday, Trump tweeted that my daughter Ivanka just arrived in South Korea. We cannot have a better or smarter person representing our country. It prompted some to ask why not?
This morning the Today Show aired an interview with Ivanka in which she was asked about claims by 19 women that Donald Trump sexually assaulted them.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Do you believe Donald Trump`s accusers?
Name: IVANKA TRUMP ( DONALD TRUMP`S DAUGHTER) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think it`s a pretty inappropriate question to ask a daughter if she believes the accusers of her father when he`s affirmatively stated that there is no truth to it. I don`t think that`s a question you would ask many other daughters.
I believe my father. I know my father. So, I think I have that right as a daughter to believe my father.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  A lot of daughter in that answer, just a lot of daughter. Leading with a lot of daughter, following up with a lot of daughter. A lot of daughter.
Ivanka Trump expressed offense at the question, because she is the president`s daughter, but she`s not just the president`s daughter, she`s a White House senior official. And that`s a problem with having people at the upper echelons of the White House who are also in the family.
When we come back, Ivanka, Jared, and the nepotism crisis that is blossoming in Trump`s White House. That`s next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: N.A ; Race: N.A ; Dialogue:  Do you believe your father`s accusers?
Name: IVANKA TRUMP ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think it`s a pretty inappropriate question to ask a daughter if she believes the accusers of her father when he has affirmatively stated that there`s no truth to it. I don`t think that`s a question you would ask many other daughters.
I believe my father. I know my father. So, I think I have that right as a daughter to believe my father.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  With me now to talk about Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner and nepotism in the White House is Jess McIntosh, executive editor of the media company Share Blue; and MSNBC political analyst Josh Earnest, who served as White House press secretary under President Obama. He was not the president`s blood relative so he could not at the podium invoke that which I imagine, Josh, having taken difficult questions, watching that, you wish you could have been, like, how dare you ask that question about my family member.
Name: JOSH EARNEST ( FORMER WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Chris, I`m a distant eighth cousin of Barack Obama. And I`m indignant about the fact you chose to ask me that question.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Wait, is that true? Or are you making that up?
Name: EARNEST ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I`m making that up.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Oh, OK.
Name: EARNEST ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It would have been a convenient excuse that I would availed myself of on many occasions at the White House briefing.
But, you know, Chris, the thing that`s interesting about the way that she handled the question. You know, first of all the first thing I noticed sort of having been on the receiving end of so many questions from television reporters over the last several years, is you actually have to admire the way Peter Alexander handled the situation is he asked a direct question, and he did the thing you`re supposed to do conducting an interview, which is he actually sat back and gave her an opportunity to answer.
It would have been easy for him to jump an ask an aggressive follow-up when she had that long pause after the first phrase, but he didn`t. You have to give him credit for that.
But the second thing is, is in terms of the way that she answered the question, she was rather indignant about the fact that the question was asked. But when it came to defending her dad she sort of just shrugged her shoulders and said,well, I believe him. Ordinarily, you`d use a television interview like that to actually advocate for a point of view, and given the fact she is, after all, his daughter, she might be in a position to know and to give us some evidence about why we should believe her or believe him, but that`s not what she did.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What role does she play? I don`t even understand.
Name: JESS MCINTOSH ( EXECUTIVE EDITOR, SHARE BLUE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I want to piggyback off what Josh said and then answer that very important question. She didn`t just say I believe him. She said I`m his daughter and so it is specifically my right to believe him. She didn`t put that umbrella over any human being except for herself.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s a great point.
Name: MCINTOSH ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  In that answer.
What role does she play? I have absolutely no idea. I think when we started this administration she was the thing that was supposed to make him palatable to the rest of us, because if he had created this poised, sophisticated, articulate, smart woman then he…
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Couldn`t be all bad.
Name: MCINTOSH ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Couldn`t be a horrible monster, despite all evidence to the contrary.
Now, I mean, she has been so flagrant with her employment of nepotism by pretending that she was the liaison for women`s issues and then refusing to answer the largest women`s issue with this White House, namely, he is an admitted serial sexual assaulter, she`s just undercut any possibility to have any kind of authority in the White House, and offended everybody who would have been interested in protecting her as a daughter.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Plus, she – Josh, she is married to a man who is at the point of the spear of a huge scandal problem in the White House, which is that he apparently reads the presidential dailing briefing, has access to highly sensitive classified information, has a temporary security clearance reporting indicates because he cannot pass his background check to get a permanent security clearance, and apparently on Friday was the deadline created by John Kelly for that no longer to be the case. And, now what?
Name: EARNEST ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yeah, now what? It`s unclear exactly how that tension is going to be resolved. You know, the interesting thing about the news conference that President Trump did on Friday was he essentially dumped that problem right back squarely into John Kelly`s lap by saying that, you know, well, John Kelly is going to resolve the situation. But, Chris, this is the essence of why you have anti-nepotism rules and when you serve in the White House, you are serving the country, you`re serving the American people. It`s easy if you are a direct blood relative of somebody else in the White House that you might get your loyalties confused, or at least it`s easy for those of us on the outside looking in to wonder if you are getting your loyalties confused.
Are you doing this because of your relationship with that person, or are you doing it because it`s your – part of your official responsibilities as somebody who is advocating for the country and for the citizens of this country?
And that kind of confusion is dangerous and it certainly raises questions on the outside. But it can also raise questions on the inside among your colleaguesabout what your true motivations are. It`s why this was a decision to bring Jared and Ivanka inside the White House was flawed from the start.
Name: MCINTOSH ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think obviously the people surrounding Trump have their loyalties confused. I think Trump has his loyalties confused. I think it is very, very rare that we see any evidence that people in that administration are working on legitimately behalf of the country as opposed to on behalf of Trump. And seems to like it that way. He wants it that way.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The point about his loyalties being confused and what Josh said, it runs in both directions. The president of the United States will have a blind spot about his son-in-law who maybe, based on what the FBI and others think, should not have access to the most sensitive secrets in the United States, but is going to keep getting them because he`s the son-in-law. That`s precisely the problem.
Jess McIntosh, Josh Earnest, many thanks.
That is All In for this evening. The Rachel Maddow Show starts right now. Good evening, Rachel.
###END
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.END
Copyright 2018 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.>

