Watch Videos
Show: ALL IN with CHRIS HAYESDate: February 13, 2018Guest: Asawin Suebsaeng, Maxine Waters, Chris Lu, Richard Painter, Annie Lowrey, Ben Howe, Amy Klobuchar

###START
Name: CHRIS MATTHEWS ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  This is the world we live in. One person in a room who gets up each day knowing he will change so much of this planet at such risk with unknown consequences. How I wonder, how I worry, how knowing what we see of life in today`s White House can give us a steady heart. That`s HARDBALL for now. Thanks for being with us. “ALL IN” with Chris Hayes starts right now.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: CHRIS HAYES ( MSNBC HOST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Tonight on ALL IN.
Name: CHRISTOPHER WRAY ( DIRECTOR, FBI) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The FBI submitted a partial report in March.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The White House keeps twisting.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Christopher Wray said it was closed in January. So who`s telling the truth here?
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Tonight, the lies get bigger and the cover-up grows as the FBI blows up the White House story on the handling of an alleged abuser.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  other,african ; Dialogue:  Do you believe Rob Porter`s ex-wives, Mr. President.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And new reporting that Rob Porter was in line for a promotion before he resigned.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Mr. President, do you have a message to domestic violence victims.
Name: DONALD TRUMP ( PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Plus the Intel chiefs tell the Senate the Russians are back for 2018.
Name: MIKE POMPEO ( DIRECTOR, CIA) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We have seen Russian activity and intentions to have an impact on the next election cycle here.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And the President hasn`t asked anyone to stop them.
Name: WRAY ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Not as specifically directed by the President.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And why Donald Trump`s new budget is a Fox News fever dream.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  People use food stamps to buy marijuana.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  When ALL IN starts right now.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Good evening from New York, I`m Chris Hayes. Today the President`s handpicked FBI Director confirmed under the oath the bedrock damning truth about the scandal currently engulfing the White House, that the White House knew for months that one of its top aides, one of its valued and cherished aid was credibly accused of domestic abuse by two ex-wives and for months, the White House did nothing about it. They did nothing knowing full well that Rob Porter posed an acute security risk. Despite an honestly sourced reports that it long knew about the Porter allegations, the White House has been insisting with a straight face over and over it did not learn the full extent of the allegations against porter till they were published in the press last week. But today the FBI Director, Christopher Wray, came before Congress and blew that timeline out of the water revealing in a Senate hearing that agents updated the White House about Porter`s background check multiple times over the last year.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: RON WYDEN  ( OREGON) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Was the White House informed that this could affect his security clearance? That`s a yes or no.
Name: WRAY ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  What I can tell you is that the FBI submitted a partial report on the investigation in question in March. And then a completed background investigation in late July that is soon thereafter, we received requests for follow-up inquiry. And we did the follow-up and provided that information in November and that we administratively closed the file in January. And then earlier this month, we received some additional information and we passed that on, as well.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  To recap, the White House got a partial report last March, all the way back in March and then a completed background check in July, a follow-up report in November and the investigation was closed last month. That account directly contradicts the official story from the White House told from the podium that Porter`s background check was still kind of floating out there, this kind of never-ending process perpetually incomplete. And senior officials had yet to even receive the FBI`s findings.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: RAJ SHAH ( DEPUTY PRESS SECRETARY, WHITE HOUSE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  asianindian ; Dialogue:  His background investigation was ongoing. He was operating on an interim security clearance. They were all part of an ongoing background check investigation. The process was still ongoing. We relied upon it.
Name: SARAH HUCKABEE SANDERS ( PRESS SECRETARY, WHITE HOUSE) ; Gender: N.A ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  We let the process play out. It was ongoing, hadn`t been completed. The FBI and other intelligence communities, they make that determination. The process for the background was ongoing. And the White House had not received any specific papers regarding the completion of that background check.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  They hadn`t received specific papers regarding the completion. Sarah Huckabee Sanders also said the FBI makes that determination. So, that`s what she said. You saw what Christopher Wray said anticipating that well, they would have some explaining to do today press briefing. The White House first sent out Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao to eat up some time with non-answers about infrastructure and, of course, the quarterly ritual of the novelty check from the President. When that was done, the Press Secretary was finally confronted with the administration`s lies about the Porter timeline and she proceeded to throw the career officials at the relatively obscure White House office of security under the bus.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: SANDERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  The White House personnel security office staffed by career officials received information last year in what they considered to be the final background investigation report in November. But they had not made a final recommendation for adjudication to the White House because the process was still ongoing when Porter resigned. In the view of personnel security office, the FBI`s July report required significant additional investigatory field work before personnel security office could begin to evaluate the information for adjudication.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  What Sarah Huckabee Sanders left out of that explanation what role senior aides including White House General Counsel or Chief of Staff may have played in that process. Asked directly if top officials were in the loop, she did not give a real answer.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Did anyone at the White House personnel security office have any communication with anyone in the West Wing about Rob Porter`s clearance between when the FBI started submitting its internal reports.
Name: SANDERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I`m not aware of any communication. I can`t say the definitively but I`m not aware of any communication.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Given what we know about SANDERS` security clearance procedures and what`s already been reported multiple times by the Washington Post and others, the idea that a White House Council Don McGahn would not have known about the claims against Porter, well, it`s preposterous. And that makes the administration`s obvious attempt at a cover-up all the more absurd. Chief of Staff John Kelly told aides and reporters that he first learned about the extent of the allegations a week ago tonight and that Porter was gone 40 minutes later. We knew that was a lie because the White House was still defending him the following day and Kelly himself telling reporters that day he stood by his statement he had drafted and put out calling Porter who allegedly did this to his first wife as a face, “a man of true integrity and honor.” Now, we know that`s not all they did to support him. According to Politico, we learn this, in the hours after that photo was published, the photo we just showed you, the photo that has become infamous rightly, the White House hastily arranged an off the record meeting in the West Wing with who, Porter himself and four reporters in which Porter on background relayed his version of events and fielded questions from the crew. Politico also reports that the three communication staffers present at that meeting including Sarah Huckabee Sanders did not dispute that White House Chief of Staff John Kelly had urged Porter to stay. Again, after all, this has come out, urged Porter to stay accord to a person familiar with the exchange. Kelly was asked by the Wall Street Journal last night if the White House should have handled the Porter situation differently. His response and I quote this, “no, it was all done right.” Jonathan Lemire is a White House Reporter from the Associated Press and MSNBC Political Analyst, Asawin Suebsaeng, a White House Reporter of the Daily Beast. I`ll start with you, Jonathan. Is that the view in the White House right now that this was all done right.
Name: JONATHAN LEMIRE ( MSNBC POLITICAL ANALYST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s the view that John Kelly is trying to put forth. There are many others in the West Wing who do not feel that way. This is a moment where John Kelly sort of grip on his position of Chief of Staff as by far it`s most tenuous since he took the job. We know from our reporting in recent days that President Trump has been calling around to sort of outside group of allies, his informal kitchen cabinet, those folks he calls every night from the White House residence sort of asking them their opinions on this scandal and how Kelly has performed during it and floating names about possible replacements. Now, it should be said, the President does that a lot. He often evaluates senior aides with his staff usually to complain about them. But this is a moment where there are people in the West Wing who have been upset that how Kelly changed things. He took away – they took – he took away their access to the Oval Office. He threw them out of the building. And a lot of those people now, they have their knives out for the Chief of Staff where they are suggesting that he handled this inappropriately and they feel like perhaps he should be removed.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Gabe Sherman saying widespread chatter tonight among Republicans close to White House, Trump is nearing a decision to name Gary Cohn as replacement. Who knows it –
Name: LEMIRE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That would be a remarkable comeback for Gary.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, you`re never out and you`re never completely in is sort of the –
Name: LEMIRE ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That`s right.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You know, Asawin, what`s also remarkable he is CNN reporting that Porter was actually up for a promotion. They were thinking of making him Deputy Chief of Staff, again, after all this stuff is coming back into the White House. What do you think of that?
Name: ASAWIN SUEBSAENG ( WHITE HOUSE REPORTER, DAILY BEAST) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, that`s not entirely surprising because based on our reporting and reporting at several outlets like for months the Trump White House had been expanding Rob Porter`s portfolio. He wasn`t just a Staff Secretary. He was becoming more involved with policy and policymaking. And back to what you were talking earlier about how the narratives from the White House keep changing and then they`re multiple narratives and they keep clashing both on the record and off the record and on background, when Sarah Huckabee Sanders came out today and tried to clarify things and trying to throw “career officials” at that personnel office under the bus in the White House, what she didn`t mention to reporters and viewers of that briefing is that the office she was talking about while staffed by career officials is supposed to be overseen by the Deputy Chief of Staff of Operations who is right now Senior White House official Joe Hagin. So in these ongoing clashing and shambolic explanations coming from the White House, they`re only raising more questions about who knew what when and that includes Joe Hagin, that includes John Kelly, Don McGahn, Hope Hicks, everybody basically.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Yes, first of all, Hope Hicks is reportedly dating Rob Porter. I imagine she had some conversations with him about the fact he wasn`t getting the security clearance. It`s not a thing people in the White House are just like, oh, where did we end up on my security clearance? Where did we end up on my background check?. Where did we end up with the FBI people who were talking to everybody in my life? It`s a thing that you keep on top of.
Name: LEVINE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Certainly, if it`s your own security clearance at stake, you`re keenly aware of where that process is. Now, there may be other folks in the White House who may not totally be aware of like oh, does Rob have this clearance or that? I mean, he`s been grand interim clearance in the meantime. You know, but at the same time, a clearance like that to say that the investigation was still ongoing is in some ways also because they don`t want to reject it, they keep it open so you can have interim access to these things.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I just want to be clear on this. To Asawin`s point, there is no way, there is no way and I know about this because I`ve talked to people in previous White Houses who have dealt with this, that the FBI is talking to the White House Office of Personnel Security and no one from the White House staff is involved. Not possible. Not happening. It is not happening with senior staffer. I am telling you right now, it is just not a plausible story. And I thought, Asawin, this was an amazing quote from Hogan Gidley, a Spokesperson from the White House in trying to explain this mess which is we lean on a process here at the White House, which I thought was an extremely funny line. I don`t know if he meant it to be as funny as it is. I have never encountered a White House less concerned with process than this one. How about you?
Name: SUEBSAENG ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, if by process, Mr. Gidley there meant the process that is currently the standard operating procedure of the Trump White House and the Trump administration, which is chaos, to chaos, careening from self-inflicted crisis to crisis, he is actually correct in that. Oh, by the way, I would be remised not to say Happy Infrastructure Week to everybody watching right now. But the senior officials who I have spoken to in this White House have been telling us at The Daily Beast uniformly that this – the past seven days of the Rob Porter scandal and the fallout coming from it has implicated a bunch of senior officials in the Trump White House, that they have not seen anything like this since the immediate aftermath of the Comey firing back in May, and that is saying something.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  All right, Jonathan Lemire, and Asawin Suebsaeng, great to have you both. I`m joined now by Democratic Congresswoman Maxine Waters of California. What do you make of the shifting stories coming from the White House on this matter?
Name: MAXINE WATERS  ( CALIFORNIA) ; Gender: female ; Race:  eastasian,latino,caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, I think the discussion that you`ve had this evening really does define what is absolutely wrong with this White House. The lies, the distortions, the confusion, the chaos, it is pathetic. And, of course, they are all being revealed in what is an attempted cover-up. Who knew what and when did they know it. It is coming out despite the fact that they have tried to you know, tell different stories about when they knew about Porter, what they thought once they learned about the fact that he`s a wife beater when his wife – one of his wives was shown with a black eye, and then all of a sudden, Kelly tried to say that oh, he did not know that. He was shocked by it and at one point, he certainly had defended him and it sounds as if even today, he`s saying that he thought that he had done things correctly. He lied about the fact that he had been fired or whether or not he had quit voluntarily. And then Sarah Huckabee Sanders who has tried to defend somebody, everybody all of those who were involved in this confusion has just made it more difficult for anybody to be believe them. But of course, I want you to know, I`ve never believed Kelly. Don`t forget, he is the one that lied on a Congresswoman and said that she was an empty barrel. And then supposedly quoted what she had said only to have been found to have lied when the video was shown about her speech that day. And he has refused to apologize. So he has no credibility. I`m not surprised that he`s lying about what he knew, when he knew it, whether or not he fired Porter, or whether or not he quit voluntarily. It is a mess. The fact of the matter is Porter was a wife beater. He had been proven to have beaten two of his wives, and the way that they have described their beatings, he was brutal. And so they are trying to cover it up. He was in for a promotion and they had to know that he had not passed his security clearance and probably this is why.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I should note that he denies the allegations. He – it is alleged at least as far as we are concerned journalistically although there is corroborating evidence from both of the women, Colbie Holderness and Jennifer Willoughby. Both who have been very courageous in telling their stories. What do you think it says that the President has spoken about this twice, once defending Porter and saying it`s very sad, once bemoaning the lack of due process, the White House says they take domestic violence very seriously, the President hasn`t said anything of the sort, he ignored questions about it today. What do you make of that?
Name: WATERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, you know, this President does not have a record of support for women. He has demeaned women. He has supported those who have violated women. Don`t forget, you know, he supported a pedophile candidate for the United States Senate. So whether we`re talking about spousal abuse, wife beatings, or whether we`re talking about the violation of women and children, he does not have a record of having supported women anytime anyplace anywhere. And no, he`s not said anything about the victims because he really does not care. He believes, I think that he believes that Porter is OK, that he wanted to keep him. He wanted to promote him despite the fact that I think, that not only did we have others who knew about his past, but I think the President knew. I am saying that I believe that. And so I`m not –
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You don`t – I should be clear, there`s no evidence you have directly of that. We haven`t seen reporting of that. You just suspect that.
Name: WATERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Oh, yes, of course. I mean, listen, you know, we have – we are you know, sensible human beings. The average logical person looking at what has happened in this White House could easily conclude that they all knew, including the President. I believe that. No, I don`t have any documentation for that, but I think the testimony today of the FBI Director should tell you something.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Congresswoman Maxine Waters, thank you for your time tonight.
Name: WATERS ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  You`re welcome.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Next, today we found out the President has not asked anyone to lift a finger to prevent 2018 Russian election interference which is already happening at least according to folks that testified on the Hill today and that the Director of National Intelligence basically says the President`s son-in-law should not have unfettered access to classified information. The growing questions about a security gap in the White House in two minutes.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Today`s smoking gun from the FBI Director Christopher Wray, the FBI background investigation of Rob Porter was complete even though the White House had repeatedly pushed the idea the process was still ongoing, it was still in the FBI`s hands somehow. And it raises all kinds questions about the status of none other than the President`s own son-in-law and Senior Adviser Jared Kushner. Not to mention dozens of others reportedly still working at the White House with temporary clearance. According to Wray`s testimony, March of last year, the FBI submitted its partial report on Porter. In late July, the FBI completed its background investigation. White House requested a follow-up which was provided by the FBI in November. Then in January of this year, Porter`s file was administratively closed. And yet he Rob Porter remained in his Staff Secretary position with just an interim security clearance. So what about all the other people still working right now in the White House without permanent security clearance? People like Jared Kushner who according to The Washington Post has been allowed to see materials including the President`s daily briefing that are among the most sensitive in government. The national director –the Director of National Intelligence was asked about precisely that today and here is what he said.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: DAN COATS ( DIRECTOR, NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  pacificislander,caucasian ; Dialogue:  I think sometimes it is necessary to have some type of preliminary clearance in order to fill a slot. But I have publicly stated if that is the case, the access has to be limited in terms of the kind of information they can – they can be in a position to receive or not receive. The process is broken. It needs to be reformed.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Richard Painter former Chief White House Ethics Lawyer under George W. Bush, Chris Lu is a former White House Cabinet Secretary and Assistant to President Barack Obama. And Chris, let me start with you. Given what we know now, as it appears to you that they were using temporary clearance as essentially an end run around the fact that the background check had come back and there had been probably a recommendation if it was never committed to paper that he not get a permanent clearance?
Name: CHRIS LU ( FORMER ASSISTANT TO PRESIDENT OBAMA) ; Gender: unknown ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Yes, you`re absolutely right. Somebody in the White House or in the West Wing gamed the system to keep Porter in on his clearance as long as possible. We now know that as early as March red flags were raised. Somebody at that point should have taken decisive action to get to the bottom of this quickly and if necessary move him out of the position. And now, the idea that Sarah Sanders is pushing that somehow the Personnel Security system is at – who`s at fault here or was in investigating this is just absurd. That was a relatively small office. Their job is not to do investigations nor does it to make final decisions.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Richard, you were in the White House Counsel`s office in George W. Bush. I don`t know the degree to which you personally handled clearances because you worked on ethics. But I guess, my question to you as lawyer, as a White House Lawyer, if something like this comes to you as a White House lawyer, the FBI says these two women say this about him and here`s the evidence and you`re managing this process, I mean, is it a hard call, an easy call? What do you do?
Name: RICHARD PAINTER ( FORMER ETHICS LAWYER, GEORGE W. BUSH WHITE HOUSE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  No, it`s an easy call. You don`t hire him. You don`t bring him into the White House. You don`t have to have proof that he actually beat his wives. And I think it`s incorrect. I disagree with Congresswoman Waters who says that he`s a proven wife beater. He`s not. There`s no proof of that. But that`s not the standard. With allegations, this serious from multiple sources, it`s enough to say that he shouldn`t be working in the White House. He would not have had any job in the Bush White House or the Obama White House to the best of my knowledge someone with that type of background problem. You don`t need to prove he`s a wife beater. We shouldn`t be arguing about this at this point. He should never have been there, to begin with and it was political people who made the decision. It`s not career people making the decision about what to do about these types of allegations. It went to the West Wing somewhere and somebody wanted to keep him on anyway. And now they`re paying the price for it. And then we got Jared Kushner and other people who lied about their contacts with the Russians, once again, those people would not be working in the Bush or the Obama White House. They wouldn`t be let in the door. And if they were there they would be fired for lying about contacts with the Russians. Whether or not they committed criminal offenses, that would be unacceptable in any White House that I know.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Richard brings up the case of Jared Kushner, Chris, and I guess the obvious question that jumps out here, it`s been 13 months, he`s still on a temporary clearance. It suggests to me the very strong likelihood it`s exactly a parallel situation where actually the files come back and they`ve said no, we can`t do this and they`re just essentially gaming it in exactly the same way. Is that possible?
Name: LU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It is – it`s entirely possible. And let`s be clear. It is – it is reasonable that there are 30 to 40 people whose clearances are still outstanding right now but not assistants to the President. There are no more than 25 assistants to the President. Jared Kushner, one of his missions is to work on Middle East peace. It is inconceivable that you would not move his security clearance to the front of the queue to ensure that it`s taken care of early, the same with Rob Porter. Richard Painter is entirely correct. This situation would not have occurred in the Obama White House because we would have caught it early whether it was Porter or we would have cut off Kushner early enough so that we weren`t riding these interim clearances for months on end.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, there`s also a question, Richard, I don`t know if you know the answer to this but tell me, my understanding is that there`s only so much you can actually handle and look at with a temporary clearance. There`s actually levels of classification that are only really granted with permanent security clearance and there`s a real question about whether either of these gentlemen Jared Kushner or Rob Porter are handling or were handling information they shouldn`t be.
Name: PAINTER ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, that might very well be the case. And if people were handling information they shouldn`t be, then you know, that`s a serious breach of the law because we only allow people to have access to the information that`s commensurate with their actual clearance level. Not everybody in the White House has a security clearance. And one can do a job in the White House without a security clearance. Most of the higher up people do have a security clearance, particularly in the staff secretary`s office because they`re looking at everything that comes and goes from the President of the United States. There`s a lot of classified information there. But once again, I don`t think anyone with these types of allegations would have allowed to have any job in the Bush or Obama White House whether or not they had a security clearance.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Finally, Chris, it`s telling to me the President could grant clearance to anyone he wants to. That power adheres to the President. He did not here and it makes me think they didn`t do it on purpose because that would be a decisive action that leaves a paper trail.
Name: LU ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, and that would be interesting to see. I mean, if this were a normal congress or normal administration, there would be oversight hearings all over the place including the issue of whether classified information was mishandled in this case. Given the processes of this White House, it is unclear as to you know, whether they raised this either to Reince Priebus back in March or even to the President of the United States. It would not be inconceivable that this was flagged for him sometimes particularly given the fact that they were considering Porter for a promotion.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s funny you use the phrase mishandling of classified materials, it was a phrase that was drilled into my head in 2016 during the campaign. Richard Painter and Chris Lu, thank you, both. Coming up, the country`s top intelligence officials all confirm what the President won`t say. Russian interference is real. It happened in 2016 and it is still happening now. That`s next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  A stark break with their boss, the President of the United States. Today, America`s top intelligence officials affirmed to the Senate Intelligence Committee that the Russian government successfully interfered in our elections in 2016 and said Russia now is actively targeting the 2018 midterm elections.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: COATS ; Gender: male ; Race:  african,caucasian ; Dialogue:  We expect Russia to continue using propaganda, social media, false flag personas, sympathetic spokesmen and other means to influence to try to build on its wide range of operations and exacerbate social and political fissures in the United States. There should be no doubt that Russia perceived that its past efforts as successful and views the 2018 U.S. midterm elections as a potential targets for Russian influence operations.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  President Trump has repeatedly dismissed the notion of Russian interference in the 2016 election suggesting he believes Vladimir Putin`s denials. Today, FBI Director Chris Wray said Trump has not asked the agency to stop Russia from intruding again.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: JACK REED ( , RHODE ISLAND) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Has the President directed you and your agency to take specific actions to confront and blunt Russian influence activities that are ongoing?
Name: WRAY ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  we`re taking a lot of specific efforts to blunt.
Name: REED ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  As directed by the President?
Name: WRAY ; Gender: male ; Race:  african ; Dialogue:  Not as specifically directed by the President.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Senator Angus King implored the intelligence officials are raid before him to do their best to convince the President to just at least take the issue seriously and t0 believe America over Russia.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: ANGUS KING  ( MAINE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I understand the President`s sensitivity about whether his campaign was in connection with the Russians. That`s a separate question. But there is no question we`ve got before us the entire intelligence community that the Russians interfered in the election in 2016. They`re continuing to do it and they`re a real imminent threat to our elections in a matter of eight or nine months. My problem is, I talk to people in Maine who say the whole thing is a witch hunt and a hoax because the President told me.
I just wish you all could persuade the president as a matter of national security to separate these two issues. We cannot confront this threat, which is a serious one, with a whole of government response when the leader of the government continues to deny that it exists.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Senator Amy Klobuchar on the president`s refusal to confront the Russian threat right after this break.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
Name: KING ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Do you agree with Director Pompeo that we haven`t seen a significant decrease in the Russian activity. And we have every expectation, I think Director Coates you`ve alluded to this, that they`ll try to continue to intervene in our elections in 2018 and 2020.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I agree with Director Pompeo`s assessment.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I agree with Director Pompeo, this is not going to change or stop.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Throughout the entire community, we have not seen any evidence of any significant change from last year.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  That was the scene at the senate intelligence committee today where the nation`s top intelligence officials testified that Russia continues to work to intervene in our elections and said that President Trump has not asked them to stop Russia from meddling again.
Joining me now, Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota who is out with a new plan to deter Russia from further interference in future elections.
And before we get to your plan, what was striking today at the hearing was just, the president has never told anyone that this is a priority, that he cares about it. He doesn`t even seem to recognize that it happened. Can anything be done in absence of that crucial step?
Name: AMY KLOBUCHAR (  MINNESOTA) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, first of all, it was an unbelievable moment, Chris, because you have the six security heads, not from the Obama administration, but from the Trump administration – FBI, CIA, director of intelligence, and they all said the same thing: that Russia, in the words of intelligence Head Coates, is bolder. They are emboldened basically to do this again.
So what can we do? Well, first of all, the fact that these intelligence security heads have admitted that this is a real possibility is a good step, right? It`s like admitting you have a problem. But then the second thing is what you do to fix it. And that is what I spoke out this week at the Center for American Progress along with former Homeland Security Head Jeh Johnson. And these are the points:number one, we need to invest in our state security election equipment. We`re talking about some states who haven`t updated their election equipment for over 10 years. And I have a bipartisan bill with Senator Lankford to do just that. The cost of 3 percent of one aircraft carrier. So, that`s number one.
And the second is to do something about the social media ads and the paid ads, which again, they admitted at this hearing quite honestly that there isn`t a plan to do anything about that either.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  So there`s sort of three vectors that we`ve seen. There`s what you talk about the probing that happened fairly cursory. It doesn`t look like actual manipulation happened of voting systems. So you have a bill to sort of beef up security grants and best practices to give those to the states.
Name: KLOBUCHAR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And provides for auditing afterward, because 10 states don`t even have that, the paper ballot idea.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Which we should probably have regardless of whatever foreign adversary is doing.
But on the second question, it seems like that`s a really tricky area, right, so I want to get to the third thing, which is intrusions and hacks. But on that second activity, it seemed to me that some of the intelligence heads today were saying, look they are still doing that kind of stuff – bots, social media, all this stuff, but that is strange territory in terms of what is and isn`t within the law, what can and can`t be regulated.
Name: KLOBUCHAR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, this is the ultimate fake news. And there are – one part of in that isn`t strange is that you already have a set of rules in place in America for paid political ads for newspapers, print, TV, and it says that you have to put disclaimers on them whether they are candidate ads or issues of national legislative importance, which is 90 percent of what the Russians bought with their rubles. You can apply those same rules to the big social media companies and basically say you have to have disclaimers, not too radical, so I don`t think this is strange territory, and you have to disclose them. And that`s what the HONEST Ads Act does, the bill that I introduced with Senator McCain and Senator Warner.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  But there`s nothing in the law or even conceivably I think constitutionally that if the GRU wanted to set up a troll farm where they create a lot of Facebook anonymous accounts and Twitter accounts, which apparently they have been doing. That seems like a tough thing to legislate. Am I wrong about that?
Name: KLOBUCHAR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, not really, because the law says we`re not supposed to have foreign interference in our elections. So, what this is about is enforcement. And it is about pushing the social media companies to come forward when this happens to monitor it,to do as much as we can to put rules in place that says that that is illegal and to spell it out and tell them they have to come forward with it. It`s just wrong.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And finally, the most important thing it seems to me are the hacks. I mean, that was really – when we talk about everything Russia did, the biggest thing was criminal sabotage intrusion into these inboxes that had a huge, huge knockon effect in the coverage and what happened. What can be done about that? Because that seems like both the most dangerous, in some ways kind of the easiest. It`s not that hard to hack someone`s inbox who is around a campaign. And also the thing that it`s kind of hardest to address.
Name: KLOBUCHAR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And I also think, also, by the way, very appealing to the public because everyone supports their own privacy. And they don`t want to see these hack, whether they`re in business, whether they`re in a non-profit, whether they`re in a political campaign. So, this means really upgrading our nation`s security, doing it on the business level, but doing what we haven`t done, which our security heads honestly admitted today, that we have not done on a national basis interagency. I keep emphasizing this. The bill alone just for the election security is only 3 percent of one aircraft carrier.
So, why, when these other countries, particularly Russia, are engaging in cyber warfare and the Trump administration wanted to put so much money into defense, for some good reasons, why are we not putting that money, as well, or taking a part of it, and put it into our cyber protection on both the private citizen basis and the political basis? It`s just not happening.
And I think we have basically we have 265 days to go, Chris, before this election, 265. And I say this, you know, hack us once, shame on them, hack us twice, shame on us.
And so the people who are blocking this from happening, that aren`t doing anything, the president who is not calling on a security apparatus to protect us on the cyber warfare, they are going to be responsible for this if it happens again.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Senator Amy Klobuchar, thanks for being with me tonight.
Name: KLOBUCHAR ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thank you.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Still ahead, the Trump budget is out and it is filled with policies straight from Fox News programming. I`ll explain ahead.
And a House divided in tonight`s Thing One, Thing Two next.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Thing One tonight, all kinds of 2018 story lines forming. The Democrats actually just flipped another state senate district tonight in Florida, but one out of Wisconsin really caught our eye. Donna and Michael Nicholson are supporting Democrat Tami Baldwin as she tries to hold on to her Wisconsin senate seat in 2018. And that`s not surprising, federal campaign records show that Donna Nicholson has made 15 donations to Baldwin`s campaign since 2012 for a total of $441.
This time around, though, many, they are in all the way. Donna, Michael each donated $2,700 to Baldwin in December 2017. In other words, the highest donation they`re legally allowed to make, which prompts the question why? Why the drastic increase in donations? Perhaps it has something to do with the fact that Donna and Michael`s son is a Republican senate candidate running to unseat Democrat Tami Baldwin? That`s Thing Two in 60 seconds.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Republican senate candidate Kevin Nicholson is running to unseat Democrat Tammy Baldwin in Wisconsin, but he likes to say he comes from a family of Democrats; in fact, he used to be one himself. In fact, he was the president of the College Democrats of America, even spoke at the 2000 Democratic convention. Nicholson had a change of heart while serving in Iraq in 2007 telling Politico he was fed up with what he considered anti-war rhetoric coming from Democrats.
The war had no such effect on Nicholson`s parents. In a statement to CNN, Nicholson says my parents have a different world view than I do. It is not surprising they would support a candidate like Tami Baldwin who shares their perspective.
And that is abundantly clear, because months after Nicholson announced he would be seeking the Republican Senate nomination in Wisconsin, after his parents donated the absolute maximum amount possible to his Democratic opponent.
Kelvin Helen Roy (ph) is a Democrat running in Wisconsin took pity on candidate Nicholson, tweeting, “must admit I feel kind of bad for the guy. His own parents don`t even think he`d be a good senator and are willing to pay to prevent him from achieving his dream, most scorching burn ever.”
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Donald Trump says we need less immigration, even legal immigration, in order to make America great again. Well tonight, updates on two stories that show his approach is havingthe opposite effect on American greatness. First, remember the Kansas chemistry professor who was arrested on his front lawn last month while preparing to take his daughter to school? Siad Ahmed Jamal (ph) was already on a plane back to Bangladesh when he was pulled off at a refueling stop in Hawaii where he`s now being held in detention.
You see, officials had tried to deport him before an immigration panel granted the 30-year-old –30-year Kansas resident a temporary stay. While Jamal is stuck in limbo, his wife and three children, all American citizens, are trying to get him back. Meanwhile, last Thursday, in the Seattle suburb of Taquila (ph), Wilson Rodriguez saw someone he thought was trying to break into his car. The father of three he worried for his family`s safety and called 911. Police arrived on the scene, apprehended the trespasser, and then they arrested Wilson Rodriguez.
Now, Rodriguez came to America in 2004 from Honduras, escaping violence there. And after he called police for help last Thursday, police discovered that he had an outstanding immigration warrant and turned him over to ICE.
Rodriguez is now being held in a detention center awaiting deportation because he called the police against an intruder.
And after yet another local uproar, the Taquila (ph) police are now saying officer will not be responsive to administrative warrants issued by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, nor will it collaborate with the agency.
Now, why wouldn`t you want to arrest an deport undocumented people calling 911 for help? Take it from then mayor of New York Rudy Giuliani, hardly a bleeding heart, who said in 1996, “everyone should understand the practicality of wanting undocumented immigrants to feel comfortable reporting criminals to police. Reporting criminals protects all people, citizens and non-citizens alike. It makes absolutely no sense to create a disincentive for immigrants to report crimes.”
In other words, deporting people who call the police help – who call the police for help hurts Americans. And so I ask, again, why are we doing this?
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)
Name: (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: N.A ; Race: N.A ; Dialogue:  Meet Jason Greenslate (ph), food stamp recipient.
So, it`s off to the gourmet section of the local food mart.
Name: UNIDENTIFIED MALE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And I got my rainbow roll, we got Ahi, salmon, eel, yellowtail with rice and then they had lobster on special.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  President Donald Trump is exploiting the conservative myth of the food stamp leech with a new policy that solves no problems, but manages to create quite a few – cut back on food stamps and deliver a box of food every month instead which means Trump`s big government nanny state would be directly in charge of telling some 16 million low income households what to eat.
Ben Howe is a senior contributing editor at Red State, Annie Lowrey contributing editor at The Atlantic where she covers economic policy and has been working on a book about anti-poverty policy, particularly about giving people money to deal with problems. And you had a great tweet storm about this policy. What do you make of it?
Name: ANNIE LOWREY ( THE ATLANTIC) ; Gender: female ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s a very complicated proposal. So, instead of sticking with the food stamp system, which works pretty well, the SNAP system as it is, so the government would take some proportion of people`s benefits and would send them as a box of food. And this raises a lot of questions? How much would it cost to send the box? How much – what would you do if your box went missing? Would you have any choice what is in the box? How is the government actually going to go about creating a fiscal apparatus to buy and distribute this kind of food?
It`s a really complicated and sort of surprising proposal because it`s a government getting into the business of direct service provision instead of providing what is fundamentally a voucher that you can use in a local business.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Here is what I thought was so funny, Ben. You know, it is the least conservative idea I have heard at some level. It`s like a Soviet style solution, right? But it`s done because it`s reverse engineered around that Fox News documentary that the thought that somewhere someone is getting over because they are using a food stamp to buy a lobster.
Name: BEN HOWE ( RED STATE) ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, you know, what is amazing to me is – the whole theory that conservative put forward about being against welfare, being against most entitlements is number one that people make better decisions for themselves than the government can. And then number two, the more we do for them, the less likely they are to learn that. So, if we get all the way to the point where we`re literally choosing food for people and you have operated under this theory that that`s the fastest way to create a welfare mentality, I mean, you`re moving straight into like you said, it does sound communist. This sounds like something I would hear from Cuba, you know. I mean, it`s insane to me that this is what they are proposing.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Just to be clear, the way food stamps work now is you get – you have a debit card usually and it has a certain allotment, and it`s not a lot of money. You go to stores that accept it and you pick out groceries. There is a lot of things you can`t buy with it, a lot of things like tooth paste or things that aren`t food that are staples, but what they are going to replace it with, and they say they`re going to save $200 billion, like some big government agency is going to just choose – and it`s going to be shelf goods that stay OK on a shelf like peanut butter and stuff like that and then like get you some box of these provisions. What do you think – you cover anti-poverty policy. What is going on here in the way people think about poverty and how to deal with it?
Name: LOWREY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  It`s a really perplexing proposal, because what we`ve generally seen from conservatives is increasing restrictions on what you can buy with food stamps. So, saying we don`t want you to buy things like junk. We certainly don`t want you to be able to buy things like lobster or saying we`re going to attach more work requirements. We`re going to make it harder to get. We`re going to shorten the period during which you can get these.
This is really out of left field or right field, as it were. It`s a really unusual proposal. It`s an unusual proposal in the sense that they`re like we are actually just going to give you these items and you`re not going to have much choice and also we`re going to create this whole complicated system to get them to you. It`s really, really surprising, and again, this is not something that we`ve seen coming out of conservative think tanks or the conservative movement. It`s really shocking. And it`s a question that hasn`t really been adequately answered yet is like where did this come from? What problem are you actually solving?
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Although, Ben, it seems like there is a sort of emotional, or sort of instinctual connection to what we`re seeing in Medicaid, which is the work requirements, which again I think are bad policy for a lot of reasons on the merits, but emanate out of some sense that someone, somewhere is getting over.
Name: HOWE ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Well, you know, in someways it seems, you know, again, I`m just guessing because I`m the same. I have no idea where this came from. I never heard anything like this before. But it almost seems like they are saying let`s make this as miserable as possible so that people won`t want to do this anymore. And you know disincentive as a conservative philosophy? I mean, maybe I should stop calling myself a conservative, because I just don`t understand how that became part of the way we – we talk about profit motive. We talk about incentivizing people to make good choices and this is the exact opposite of that. It`s going to make people more dependent, not less dependent.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  Quickly, as you cover this, this is basically DOA in congress, right, there is just no way they are going to try to create a ex-nilo (ph) food distribution system for the United States.
Name: LOWREY ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  I would be very surprised if they did, but one thing that I don`t think is DOA is within this proposal there is also $200 billion in cuts. And that would be more straightforward to implement and could really possibly come up in this budget future budget.
Name: HAYES ; Gender: male ; Race:  caucasian ; Dialogue:  And look for that. They are going to look to cut food stamps and that is going to be the beginning of the cuts for these kinds of programs.
Ben Howe and Annie Lowrey, thanks for being here.
That is All In for this evening. The Rachel Maddow show starts right now. Good evening, Rachel.
###END
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.END
Copyright 2018 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.>

